Traction/Momentum Slippage/OverwhelmJust before we started our 21-Day Journey Participant 11 said: a) I noticed that you spoke in the form about engaging 10 people in the process, while in the text of your email you say you've engaged 20. How did you change your mind, and do you think you will be able to keep up with daily correspondence with a doubled number of participants? (She is wise and clearly practiced in these matters… ;) I replied: Good question it is wonderful and very time-consuming… But I think as part of my method and process as the project progresses and the work unfolds that participants will emerge/make themselves know… resulting in around 10 by the start of Phase 2… However and this is wonderful you are all beautifully contributing some in fits and starts some with utter force variations most often due to life circumstances and time…! So in a sense I feel I am trying to hold a handful of beautiful slippery snakes! Because I want to give to each of you fully and receive you fully… it is taking more time than I could have predicted to get back to you all with all my different ’noticings' please don’t be discouraged and bear with me and keep going yourselves… I am HERE even if you can’t see me! :) As Participant 12 said in her response to Day 5: 'You [Alice] are artistically 'mother' here. You started this thing after all and we participants assist in the gestation of the project. It is a fascinating journey into the unknown. In a sense I follow your lead but I also see my role as co creator.’ and as the ‘mother’ hen of this project I said to Participant 12: 'I feel so touched by your words – they are validating… in a way I realise I feel like a mother needing to get back to my nest of hungry birds and wondering if I am a ‘good enough’ mother… have I let anyone down… did I get back to the nest too late… are some gobbling up the nutrients and getting fatter faster and have I overlooked some quieter less visible ones who need of more nurturing and encouragement’ So I’m in anxiety feeling neglectful of some of you who are steaming away with huge powerful ‘traction' but who may now feel neglected as I attend to other more intermittent members of the group and so in all aspects all of us are at risk of losing contact and momentum… lets hang in here! I know inevitably at some point some of you may pull apart as the 'traction breaks’ but I encourage us to each keep trying to engage together in mutual contribution/commitment to our growing relationship… like this image from Participant 12 together we can co-create this space 'in-between’ us but not on our own! :) So finally for those that have done Day 8… here is an extension activity for you… Point Forty Participant 1. mov'Please watch the film above from my last piece ‘Point Forty’ use it as a way of getting into an embodied state before continuing with a piece of ‘What happened’ writing which can either follow on from today's story or be the start a new life narrative from a different time. The film above is a good illustration of how a point of ‘traction’ can facilitate insight what did o you think… what do you feel when you watch it and where do you feel these responses/emotions/sensations in your body? And for those that haven’t manage to catch up yet I encourage you to do so if only with 'a few words' and we can expand upon your notes again in time… Many thanks for your patience and your relationship! Alice :)

By Dan Quinn Own work,The first image if is of the 'Lorenz Attractor’ a set of chaotic solutions of the Lorenz system which, when plotted, resemble a butterfly or figure eight or the 'Butterfly Effect’… The 'Butterfly Effect' in simplistic ‘Alice’ terms is a concept that small causes/actions/events can have large effects/impact/resonances… much like a stone when dropped in a pond sends out many ripples… ever increasing and decreasing circles… Similarly the Hummingbird… more insect in many ways than bird the movement of its wings move in a figure of eight pattern… they ‘shape shift’… changing the shape of the wing to fine tune or adjust to stay ‘lifted'… their wings can turn 180 degrees rotation… they have a huge heart that pumps blood up to 1260 beats a second and a brain bigger than any other bird relative to their size. Their embodied memory is vast and remembers all the species of flowers they have ever fed on and they ‘know’, when the nectar will be at its fullest… they can also see and hear much much further than humans… So Hummingbirds can fly forwards, backwards, sideways, upside down, straight up, down, hover… they create 75% of their lift on the ‘downstroke’ and 25% of their lift on the ‘upstroke’ they can quickly change direction whether on the up or down stroke… they can utilise the ‘positive' and ‘negative' points of this traction, action to generate decisive change… Today I would like you to imagine yourself as a Hummingbird. What is your Lift? What is your Drag? What is your Thrust? What Grounds you? How do you keep afloat or in flight? What propels you forward? (Your huge heart? Your memory of where to find nourishment? Your ability to adapt? Your ability to change direction and focus on what resources you have within you? Your ability to drop excess baggage?) In Drama speak: Our mutual co-effecting roles here are to: Contribute, Improvise, Develop, Refine and Polish to together 'take flight’ but be adaptable to move backwards, forwards, sideways, up, down and hover in order to ‘transform… 'In Forum Theatre: The ‘teacher/artist’ demonstrates… perhaps ’stopping and starting’ the development of the piece… going back to the beginning at times… discussing changes that could be made to ‘deepen’, tease out’, ‘better understand’ the ’situation/insight/sharing’ which in this 21 day process is my ’noticings’… In generating drama/art/storying we need to be open to the process and feel safe in an unjudgemental environment of ‘openly' making ‘mistakes’ so that we can ‘curiously' connect our work to our own lives and then choose if we wish to re-work them… this is a ’connotive rather than denotive’ process (Davis 2010: 48). In Action Research: 'Action research is about change and intervention.’ (O’Toole, J, 2006: 51). We are using my prompts, (artist/facilitator/muse as Participant 17 has said), to examine how to change a present situation ‘actively’, and to also ‘actively' interrogate our pasts and any 'troublesome situations’ that still reside in body-memory and to excavate the option to creatively and playfully 're-story’ ourselves into positive affect. I end with this video of 'The Klein Bottle' from Klein Bottle fanatic and enigmatic mathematician Cliff Still if your inside and outside had no ends, beginnings, edges… ups, downs, sideways… no male or female inward or outward constructs… what would you ‘wear on your outside’ what would you 'wear on your inside’… what would an integrated 4D you look like… what ripples would you send out into our very limited ‘Post-Truth’ 2017 world… to activate change?… am no mathematician and I’ll leave that to Participant 6 who I hope will help with all of that… but I am a thinker, researcher, artist and explorer and so are you all so let me know what comes up for you while you explore this state of being co-creatos somewhere in space and time… As Prof Brian Cox says: ‘If I leave a place in space, then it doesn’t cease to exist when I left it, and in spae-time, if I leave an event it doesn't cease to exist when I’ve left it’ (12: 07: 2016). X

Wikipedia defines: 'A nest is a structure built by certain animals to hold eggs offspring, and, occasionally, the animal itself. ’'A nesting function in computer programming is a function which is defined within another function, the enclosing function. ’In his book ‘The Eyes of the Skin’ Finnish Architect Prof. Juhani Pallasmaa writes that 'Touch is the sensory mode that integrates our experience of the world with that of ourselves.'’' (2012: 11) How do you nest? What is your experience of nesting? What nests have you built, destroyed, abandoned, redesigned? But the Penguin sits up. Lay down little Hen. I'll curl you up. But I like it like this. The Penguin sits up. He needs to nest. His body forms a soft circle. My husband leaves the room. I relax.

Goodbye House. Goodbye. When I started the project I toyed with the idea of calling it ‘Trouble, Traction, Transform’ but I settled on ‘Touch, Traction, Transform’ because ‘Touch' can come in many forms light and dark, heavy and tender… trouble or joy… So tomorrow, Tuesday 23rd, I would like you to list the main moments of ‘Traction’ in your life so far, not just ‘Memories' but actual ’Turning Points’, ‘Aha’ moments… at the threshold between what was and then what is. You may then want to fill in the additional column on 'choice points, insight into action, transit, transform. I describe one of mine at the very end of this page. A few of my ‘Traction’ points would be: BeforeTractionAha ‘Moment’What next? Choice points, insight into action, transit, transformation… My parents are safe. Falling off a door top and breaking my ankle in the night on the eve of my 4th Birthday. I remember it dragging along behind me as I went into Mum and Dad’s room but they didn’t believe me until the morning. Mum and Dad won’t always believe me. People are kind. A girl at nursery deliberately knocking my red and green carefully painted plaster of Paris ‘Alice in Wonderland’ chess pieces to the floor and them smashing. Not everyone is kind. I am scared and not able. Leaping off a huge rock three times bigger than me at my Grandparents house in Devon. I am brave and I am able. I need to stay close to the house. Finding a wild cats nest. I can explore. I am not a boy or a girl I am me. Refusing to play with Ian and Alan after Ian told me he loved me when I was only 7. I am a girl. I am unique, adored and special. The birth of my three sisters. I am not unique. I have to share. Adults can always protect me. Getting stuck in a ‘eddy’ whirlwind in a burnt cornfield with my Grandpa ‘Umpa. Grown ups can’t always protect me. I can have anything I want. Being told this was the only shop I could get school shoes from. I can’t have everything I want. Being a good girlHiding my wellie boots in the bushes at the bus stop before school and putting on my Granny’s heeled pixie boots instead. Being a rebel. Sex is bad. Making love to my first boyfriend against my bedroom wall. Sex is good. Be careful. London is full of strangers. Moving from a village in Leicestershire to New Cross in London. Meeting my best friend Sophie and each being given a pink carnation by a stranger as we held each other and cried in Blackheath church homesick and troubled. Strangers can be kind even in London. The world is a dangerous place. Travelling across America on my own at 19years old and ending up in Yosemite park with a German and American and a Bear. I can trust my own instincts and keep myself safe. I am not ‘healed’ enough to be a mother. The birth of my son Barney. I am a ‘good enough’ mother. I cannot possibly love another child like I love my first. The birth of my son Henry. Love is expansive and has no boundaries. I am lost. Sitting on the floor and re-discovering all my sketchbooks and writings from art school and realising that the things I am searching for now, I already worked out or known. ‘The forgotten known’. I am found. Life is unfair. Travelling to Australia to hold my sister and her stillborn daughter Susie my niece. There must be something to learn from each experience however painful. I can get married because my head tells me too. My wedding in New York. A marriage that is not from the heart is not a marriage. You have to stick a marriage out for the sake of the children and everyone else even if you are unhappy inside. I am unimportant. My divorce in Nottingham Crown Court. You can choose to change things however painful and become Happier. I matter. When I went on a long walk last weekend I took lots of photos of bridges, crossings, stiles, and a ford… IMG_2664. movAnd a lot of my ‘transition points’ are also marked by house moves… 'Today I looked over the gate of my ‘old’ family ‘house'. It is set to go on the housing market this week and represents the end of my marriage and the culmination of my divorce. The ultimate social status and achievement of ‘five bedroom quintessential thatched cottage in the heart of Rutland’ has dissolved. Since my divorce, good friends of mine recently said to me that when they first saw this house 3-years ago, they thought, ‘Oh no, Alice and Alex have bought another massive and stressful project to ‘hold’ themselves together’. She couldn't have been more right. In this ‘aha’ moment I allowed myself to ‘admit’ I was living a lie, a false construct that no longer fed my ‘heart’. With a project to focus on the ‘outside’ we didn’t need to look at ‘us’ ‘inside’. With this painful insight I made the choice point to leave, turning insight into action and transit, transform. I now live in a smaller rental property in a market town nearby. But it ‘feels’ like my home. After 18 years of ‘relationship’ I at last had the insight and courage to liberate myself from my self made false constructs of ‘success’ ‘social', ‘relational', ‘economic’ status and fear. I now feel so ‘much' inner freedom and happiness with so much ‘less’. I am starting to experience what it feels like to be really ‘fulfilled’ inside rather than ‘successful’ seen outside. Inside ‘noticings'. Outside ‘trappings'. Freedom, flight, transformation. I have learnt to ‘give my feelings ‘form’ and not ‘form’ to my feelings… I look forward to hearing about your ‘aha’ moments… all gates can be opened. All prison doors have keys…

Day 1. Transformational Encounters. Touch. Most people think of love as a feeling,  says Dr. David Richo, but love is not so much a feeling as a way of being present. Day 2. Transformational Encounters. Touch as the, 'the mother of the senses', architect Juhani Pallasmaa (2012: 11). Nesting. Day 3. Transformational Encounters. Touch. To ‘handle or feel gently usually with the intent to understand or appreciate… to meet without overlapping or penetrating…’. Day 4: Transformational Encounters. Touch. Artist, Psychotherapist and Mother Bracha Ettinger’s concept of ‘Carriance’ effectively means ‘to be carried’… Day 5. Transformational Encounters. Touch. 'The spaces I'm not writing in are when I live'. Poet Mimi Khalvalti. Day 6. Transformational Encounters. Touch. Fur. Furniture. Feeling Architectures. Trying on the feminine. Outside in. Inside out.

I invite you to complete the following sentences as you feel moved to: I never touch… I like to touch… I am completely in touch with… I have felt touched by… I wish I had touched… I like being touched on… I swear I never touched… I left a mark on… I am touched every time… I like to touch base by… I like to touch base with… The past touches me like… How much am I in touch with me? Can I see your hands? Images: Here are mine…

I wonder if I've been changed in the night. Let me think. Was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But if I'm not the same, the next question is 'Who in the world am I? ' Ah, that's the great puzzle!  (The Caterpillar, Alice In Wonderland, Lewis Carroll). ‘To become a butterfly, a caterpillar first digests itself. But certain groups of cells survive, turning the soup into eyes, wings, antennae and other adult structures’. 'Before hatching, when a caterpillar is still developing inside an egg it grows an imaginal disc for each of the adult body parts it will need as a mature butterfly… discs for wings… legs… so on… once the caterpillar has disintegrated all of its tissues, except for the imaginal discs, those discs use the protein rich soup all around them to fuel the rapid cell division required to form the wings and the legs… eyes… genitals and all other features of an adult butterfly… ''By the end of metamorphosis certain caterpillar muscles and sections of the nervous system are largely preserved in the adult butterfly… [some] studies even suggest that butterflies remember what they learnt in the later stages of their former lives as caterpillars…’ (J, Ferris, Scientific American, 2012: 10) On Day 5 Participant 7 (a musician) wrote: 'At this point, I need to talk about thought and touch/impression. I imagine motions before actually exercising them. I play musical phrases in my fingers (sometimes moving them very slightly but often not at all). I can 'feel' melodies, rhythms and harmonies inside my hands. It's like preparation. My brain is feeling those things out before implementing them. I've walked a road before I've walked it. ’So: What layers have you have shed…? (What were you fed as a child? (Touch) What did you learn as a teenager. (Traction)? What remains in your muscle memory, that you silently rehearse? What happens when you become ‘transparent’ a state that is not caterpillar nor either yet butterfly what rests in these places of ‘becoming?’ What is in this your ‘secret dwelling place’ now? I invite you to ‘draw’ (or if more comfortable for you to sing, speak, map, write, photograph, dance) what it might look like to ‘rearrange’ your 'caterpillar self’ into a butterfly? You may find it useful to think about: What is your adult self needing to do, say, show, resource, feed now? (Transform) This is my son hanging as a chrysalis from a tree… What would your free child say to you adult self now go and play with it… :)

Dr. David Richo, talks of five A's: 1. Attention2. Acceptance3. Appreciation4. Affection5. Allowing He says that by giving and receiving these five A's, relationships become deeper and more meaningful, and they become a ground for personal transformation. I invite you today to consider what these words might mean to you, how do you create a sense of these for yourself… for others… how does it feel when someone else gives these qualities to you? Have you experienced their opposites… Feel free to respond in anyway that moves you. LOVE. Alice. Now looking at what I should have responded to. The 5 As. I suppose that giving attention to someone is a form of love but often we do not unless our partner asks for it. Acceptance can be receiving love or even the loss of it, accepting that you no longer have it. As in It may not always be so… Appreciation seems too mild a term to use of love. Affection too is mild, and Allowing, well would you allow someone to love you, give them permission? These last three are not words I would normally think of in connection with love. Their opposites attention/ignoring acceptance/rejection appreciation/disinterest affection/coldness allowing/forbidding. The opposites are a lot more powerful. I suppose rejection and forbidding are the strongest terms to use in the context of love, particularly the former. I would say, yes I have experienced these things.

Love. Nesting. Touch… As fellow humans, engaging together right now, it doesn’t matter whether ‘we’ are energetically residing in our own male or female, (and potentially states in-between or be-coming) bodies, what we all have in common is that we have all been ‘carried’ within the female womb, body, nest, space… I invite you today to consider re-imagining your residency within your/a/the mothers deep trasnformational womb space. Her body held you for around 9-months in a state of ‘un-gendered being’… a third space, a place of becoming… suspension… before we knew ourselves to be birthed as 'male or female'… Imagine, remember, explore and make present this affective place of feeling… How might it feel to re-experience this place in a metaphorical sense that allows, ‘the other’ [you] to be ‘within me [or another] charged’. Bracha Ettinger calls this ‘Thinking (M) otherwise’ (2006) where does this thinking… feeling re-imagining lead you… Link to video on you tube: 'The eyes want to collaborate with the other senses. All the senses, including vision, can be regarded as extensions of the sense of touch – as specialisations of the skin.' Pallasmaa

Definition of transformation1 : an act, process, or instance of transforming or being transformedDefinition of transform1a : to change in composition or structureDefinition of supposition1 : something that is supposed : hypothesisDefinition of soup1 : a liquid food especially with a meat, fish, or vegetable stock as a base and often containing pieces of solid food2 : something (such as a heavy fog) having or suggesting the consistency or nutrient qualities of soupLooking a head I invite you to research and start to prepare how you might go about 'creating a beautiful soup or (other such dish/meal of your choosing) to eat with a loved one/s' sometime over the next remaining 7 days or so. You could cook for a lover, a sibling, a child, a dog… or a hidden aspect of yourself that would like to come out and play… Who will you invite and how will you invite them? What ingredients will you choose? Where will you buy them from? How will you prepare them? What do you want to gift to your guest? Where will you eat? What will you wear? What would you like to receive? What anxieties to you have about how they might receive you? What risks can you take? What is the worse thing that could happen? What is the BEST? How can you make this a truly transformational encounter?

‘What a man [woman] can be, he [she] must be. This need we may call self-actualisation’Maslow (1954) Today I invite you to analyse where you are currently spending your time and energy by generating your own Wheel of Life. As background to this: Many of you will be familiar with Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs Pyramid. On this version of his diagram the concept of ‘transcendence’ is also added to the ’top'. I also feel that our ability and need to create/play/transform also sits somewhere in this same place and that these are those ‘aha' moments of shift, realisation, freedom and insight when we are in ‘creative’ flow… a musician must play, an artist must paint… a writer must write… a gardener tend… a chef cook… Similarly in ‘Authentic, how to be yourself and why it matters’, (Joseph, J. 2016): Prof. Stephen Joseph talks about the 'Eudaimonic or Hedonic’ orientated person: 'The eudaemonically orientated person values personal growth, seeks new challenges, strives for excellence in what they do and looks for meaningful purpose in their life. They set goals for themselves that are intrinsically valuable to them and part of their identity. In contrast, the hedonically orientated person seeks pleasure, enjoyment, comfort or relaxation. Because their orientations are different, they have contrasting behaviours and experiences.’ (Joseph, J, 2016: 104) in ‘Authentic’. So when drawing your 'Wheel of Life’ consider also what are the orientations of your intentions… eudaemonic or hedonic? Here are template options to print off and colour/notate then scan or photograph back into Evernote or draw your own on a piece of paper or annotate one in ‘Skitch’ online. Then make up your own 8-12 categories to put round the edge. You may wish to adapt and extend these from your THRIVE (and in the case of Participant 13, FLOURISH) Transformational Targets from your Day 15 Response Prompt. Maybe put a E or H by each category also to identify if your life is spent in a more Eudaimonic or Hedonic orientation. Some other suggestions for categories might be: Creativity. Love. Solitude. Sexuality. Intimacy. Earning Money. Fun. Recreation. Physical Activity. Property/Possessions. Personal Growth. Spirituality. Labour/Employment. Family. Friends. Learning. Helping Others. Examples: Now rate your satisfaction/fulfilment levels on a scale of 1-10 or 14 depending on what template you use with 10/14 being 'Very Satisfied/Fullfilled' and 1 being 'Very Unsatisfied/Unfulfilled'. It might then look a bit like one of these…: Then analyse how do you spend your time? How could you alter parts of your wheel to rebalance certain areas, if one area is high what are you neglecting is this still satisfying how can you make more time to generate space to expand and deepen what you need more of in your life to feel a greater sense of fulfilment… self-actualisation… freedom of choice… creativity…? As an extension exercise for those of you that want more: Try setting your watch to bleep at ten random points throughout your day over three days, note what you are doing at each time. Don’t judge it just jot it down… you might be reading… working… playing with children… arguing… then think is it of hedonic or eudaemonic orientation… then ask why… dig deep… is it because you need money… is it because you are avoiding contact with someone… because you need to look afte the family… how much is it meeting your needs… what might you look to alter… rebalance… transform…? And how is that SOUP making going have you had your ‘special’ encounter meal yet? Love to hear!

A friend once said to me that the, 'problem with the world is that we have divided it up with lines as borders, and printed bits of paper as wealth’. Prompted by the events of the Manchester Bombings today 😔… as a ‘species’ we have also seemingly coerced ‘love’ into separate waring factions of religion, power, conflict and division. A participant from my last piece, ‘Situating the Reciprocal’ said of his experience within this artwork, 'If it is a unique contribution to knowledge, then it is a unique contribution to our understanding of love.’ (‘SITUATING THE RECIPROCAL’, MR: 2016). And today perhaps of all days in the UK since July 7 2005 it seems to me ever more important to ‘map a field of connections and love’ and not ‘build barriers and walls of division and hate’. This TETTT work we are doing is important not just to academia and art but hopefully to us, our ‘species’ and planet. By our really listening and wanting to ‘hear’ each other and connect through and beyond our differences… we surely make small steps away from ‘hate' and towards a more hopeful, restorative and unique contribution to ‘love’. Peter L Natal Chart Report. pdfSo I have noticed over the past fortnight your many different ‘mappings’ of love, journeying, connection, touch, movement, out, back, between, within, beyond to include yesterday your own personal maps of connections, familial, romantic, collegial and other… Today, as a bit of ‘fun’ and in order for me to practically ‘collect’ your data, I have mapped your birth chart for each of you. This 'natal chart’, is a picture of ‘your' sky at the exact time of your birth showing where the planets were in relation to the earth and the zodiac when you were born. These charts create interesting ‘shapes’ and if you wish to draw anything more from them in terms of the ‘meaning of the positions’, on your 'temperament, patterns of behaviour, general characteristics' and the 'potential influences’ the planetary positioning might have on your life then please do so. If this is the case I suggest you look at the chart diagram, maybe reading the blurb on the PDF also and noticing what leaps out at you in relation to your own 14 days of mapping your experiences of ‘Touch’ and ‘Traction’ response. Are there any further useful traction points of cross-reference, resonance and resource in relation to your birth skies that might be worth recording? What seems to align? What seems untrue? What insights/resistances offer traction? Any more ‘aha’ moments in image, word, thought, sense, action, colour, sound, hue? What intimacy, ‘in-to-me-i-see’ to you see when your 'sky and earth’, or your 'you and I' collide? This is mine: For example in mine these are the useful ‘planetary’ musings that for me seem to some how correlate with my own ‘earthly’ experiences and reflections: Perhaps the early family life was lacking in supervision or clearly defined rules. A father figure may have been absent or distant and ineffective. You may have a glorified image of your father. Whether the image is very positive or very negative (or if it swings between these extremes), the image is not very clear or rational. Whatever the case may be, you struggle with defining who you are. You might be susceptible to being taken advantage of by others, especially by men or authority figures. You may be easily led astray by peculiar desires or self-destructive habits. You may struggle with early conditioning that made you feel tossed aside or neglected in some way, and certainly not directed or supported. You are not much scared of anything. You enjoy and embrace growth, especially of the psychological kind. You look for symbols, and read between the lines in most any situation. You are not afraid to get your hands dirty, and you are usually quick to help others--not only with mundane tasks, but also on a spiritual or psychological level. You are not a do-gooder nor are you a law-breaker. However, you are not afraid of the dark side of human nature, and you will bend the rules from time to time if you feel the need to do so. You take particular pleasure in growth and life's lessons. You are not fond of superficiality, and are generally the first to spot pretense of any kind. You are passionate and can be intense. Highly imaginative. She fantasizes frequently. She falls back into her imaginary world. Dreamlike. Your imagination is so powerful that it can be hard to trust your instincts. You easily imagine things going wrong, just as you easily fantasize about good things! You are usually found chasing a dream… or a fantasy. The former is probably the better path. You are very responsive, communicative, and curious. She likes research, investigations, inquiries. Studies well. She is fascinated with all that is unexplored, mysterious, taboo, secret, and psychological. Loves research and has a great mind. She wants to know the motivation behind what people do. Her senses lead. It is only when you get into touch with your heart and discover your true desires that you realize that sensations are merely sensations--not deeply satisfying or fulfilling. Sometimes prone to feelings of guilt about their anger, and difficulties with asserting themselves, Mars in Pisces individuals seem to go with the flow. As you have difficulty trusting in your ability to go after things that you want in a direct manner. It may also be that you have difficulty pinpointing what it is that you want, or that part of you doesn't feel you deserve it due to a basic lack of self-confidence. You fear rejection as well as criticism, and often use roundabout means to go after what you want. If you do feel resentment for giving up your power to someone else, learn to avoid giving it up unless you truly understand that you are doing it for yourself, and not for someone else. Adopting a more direct and assertive approach to life is something that you should be working towards. Values people and personal freedom most. Wants to show unique perspective or skills. Open to new methods and progress. Crafty, subtle and critical. Great tolerance and humanitarianism. She knows what's going on at a glance. She thirsts after knowledge, and is a good organizer. She is very independent, likes her freedom of action, is a non-conformist. Possesses a serious mind, sometimes wishing to be more free and breezy. Pluto represents transformations, mutations and elimination. They have charming smiles, a gentle approach with others, and an easygoing image. She will study for a long time, will be erudite. Very intelligent, an open and independent spirit, will have a connection with foreign countries. Fertile intelligence. She will leave the family home reasonably young. Likes liberty, wants a life that is out-of-the-ordinary, and certainly one that does not correspond with Mum and Dad’s. Likes studying, is open to anything new, accepts and recognizes her errors, always develops in a positive sense. Likes travel, discovery, meeting new people and knows how to appreciate them. All the leadership qualities are there: authority, sense of organization, initiative, intelligence, but also thanks to outside help. She is a fighter. Her knowledge is the result of study but also of the down-to-earth nature that characterizes her. Marriage doesn't bring luck, honors come as she imagined they might.

Wow we are here thereabouts half way through Phase 1. On its ‘Threshold’ about to leave its before and enter its after. Its turning point. Its climax. Its arc, our peak before our fall (flight), decline, loss, (hope). I feel sorrow now. Sad at the thought of losing you our intensity. Like a secret, I have wanted to steal underneath the covers and be with you… write to you and see you every day. I have wanted to build up to our climax, our meeting point and this anticipation has at once thrilled me, challenged me, made me anxious, I’ve feared failure, missing you, not meeting you, loss. Feared Loving. But I am here. Thank you for being here too. Today I invite you to: op1) Watch and listen to this: The listen to this, whilst reading this : 05 The Red Shoes. mp3Alice Tuppen_Blood Light Book2. pdfTomorrow is my birthday. I will be 44 years old at 5. 30pm on May 20th 2017. I was born in Royal Leamington Spa. I am Alice Charlotte Corps. My Mother is Diana Mary, my Father is Christopher John. I do not yet know my sisters. They have not arrived yet. I think they are up to something else right now. Come on my sisters I’m expecting you. I don’t want to do this all alone. But for now I am happy. I am here. What am I here for? Where am I? Who to I want to become now… next… and Who is this? Them? Do they know me? ‘Hello'. Big blue eyes look up out. Mother, father… washing machine… 3) Now please when you are ready listen to this with your eyes closed, your hands over your heart and breathe. When the song ends, gently open the door (if you are inside) and go out and walk somewhere perhaps without knowing where… for at least 5mins ‘away' and 5mins back to ‘home’. You can extend the journey if you like but notice where you are when you reach your ‘turning point’. As you are walking outside, ‘inside' your body listen to and recall your own birth-day (or one of your birthday's) perhaps at the threshold of becoming an ‘adult’… or 30 or 40 or 50 or 60 or 70 how did you feel? How do you feel now as you walk in your body now, in the moment in this time what moves within and outside of you? How does it move? Where? How do you know? Have a conversation between you ‘now’ and your younger self ‘then’ what do you say? When you get back home please share your ‘walk' story Before, After, Beyond I will listen/watch/read/taste/feel and ‘receive’ you. And at the end practically please also just let me know: Your full name, birth place, time and date of birth and mother and fathers names. Happy Birthday!

After we were ‘within’ we were ‘beside’. The difference between being carried and allowing… she spoke of recent Native American teachings that ‘are very strong on letting each person take responsibility so they may walk their own road. One specific teaching is about not carrying but standing beside another.’ (Participant 8: 08/05/17). Similarly, Trinh t Minh-Ha was one of the first black feminist filmmakers to make work whereby she chooses ‘not to speak about/just speak nearby,’ (1982) her subjects. Reassemblage, From the Firelight to the Screen (1983) Trinh T. Minh Ha ‘Visual Anthropology’ I met with Participant 14 today. We’ve met two handfuls of times before in the last two years and we drank two beers – each. I held her hand. She photographed us. We listened to each other. Talked about the space between us. That in fact ‘that this is where it happens’ not ‘in’ us but ‘between’ us. She talked about how after our chat tonight she will leave with something absorbed. I said I think about it as, (and here I include my own Evernote ‘noticings’ from the beginning of my PhD. Dec 2014: and: and perhaps: Attachment psychologist and psychotherapist J. Bowlby (1907-1990) refers to these ‘excavations’ as ‘forgotten knowns’ and in Gestalt Therapy terms, ‘aha’ moments – rediscoveries and recoveries of parts of self. Bowlby was interested in how separation from our caregivers impacted us as children suggesting that both mothers and infants had ‘evolved’ together ‘an innate need for proximity’. Bowlby was also interested in K. Lorenz’s 1935 study on ‘imprinting’. 'Lorenz he was able to show that young geese would imprint on attachment figures in the environment within a certain critical period after hatching. Lorenz was even able to get newly-hatched geese to imprint on him and view him as a mother figure. This revealed that not only is attachment innate, but that there is also a critical period during which the formation of attachment relationships is possible. Lorenz’s research found that after a certain period (approximately 32 hours for geese), attachment was not likely to occur.’ Are we attaching, imprinting or standing side by side, co-creating, or is our encounter a form of dancing? I leave you with the words of Mimi Khalvalti – I first read this poem on the tube one night in 1993 whilst at art school. Humming your Nocturne on the Circle Line, unlike the piano, running out of breathI've been writing you out of my lifemy loves (one out, one in). I've pushed you out of the way to seewhat the gaps in my life might look like, how large they are, how quickly I could write them in; and not (at least till I've lost you both) rewriting you only meansthat the spaces I'm not writing in are where I live. 'Apology'

Our Penultimate Day of Phase 1! Wow! So today it is all about resourcing ourselves for the journey ahead. We have by now played with and identified our touch, traction and transformational directions… This has been an AMAZING process and so mutually moving I feel very privileged to be working wth you all. Thank you. Attention/Acceptance/Appreciation/Affection/AllowingNestingTouchingWomb/Within/Feeling SpaceBeside/Between/Feeling VoidsFeminine Within/PerformedTechnological Touch/Network8/9. Post-truth 'You 'like' or you 'fight' Story-ing and Slippages. Story-ing and Slippages. Collisions. Collectives. Climaxes. Peaks. Structural Holes. Webs. Networks. Trouble. Traction. Transform. Mapping our Skies. Traction into Transformation. Imaginal Discs. Supposition and Soup. A Dynamic Relationship. Wheel of Life. Artist, Participant, Group. Listening. What is in your back pack? The unknown ‘known’… So today I invite you to pack your bag for your journey. What have you learnt on your journey so far… (in life and in the last 21days…)… what is coming with you? ‘Wherever I lay my hat, that's my home’ Alice Tuppen-Corps, December 2016. Alice Tuppen_Corps_ for TETTT. docxWe have started and/or deepened our own relational ‘Transformational Encounters’ virtually together in this ‘Evernote’ holding space… Some of you have already started encountering each other of your own volition ‘outside’ the virtual space and spending time together in the ‘real’ world… I have also spent a a few moments with some of you, over coffee, taking photos, fixing a ‘naughty’ computer, sharing a beer, listening to some music, having a meal or experiencing a reading… You have also spend time with intimate friends and loved ones over soup… or even encountered ‘unknown' ‘strangers' or dialogued with the ‘known’ ‘estranged’, over chance meetings or through ‘awkward’ transforming conversation… Today once you have packed your bag of ‘intimate resources/objects’ if you wanted to share these with one other person other than yourself who would this ‘famous’ person from history or the present day be? Why would you choose them? What would you want to tell or share with them about you or your ‘intimate resources/objects'? What might youk want from them? When you reach your destination where would that be, where would you nest down for the day, night, week, experience together…?

So as I draw 7 days of ‘Traction' to a close I am leaving you with several prompts and group ‘noticing’s’, (and more individual ‘noticing's will also filter through over the next few days), and I ask you to navigate and respond to that which is most useful to you with a view to identifying 7 main areas/actions/steps in your life, however big or small, that you might like to work on ‘transforming’ further in ‘Transformation’. Areas to Transform: 1… 2… 3… 4… 5… 6… 7… Our Group Traction Summaries: 1) Participant 5 said: 'Sometimes this week I have felt a bit like you are reading my mind!! ’… others of you have said much the same… but I really think that it is ‘our’ co-related space that creates a ‘reciprocal’ synergy, potential and place for exchange. I ‘feel’ you too because I am listening with the whole of me… and I have a plan… I notice your responses… I re-evaluate my plan… I adapt… I exchange… I respond… I meet you and together we build something bigger, better, other… So Artistic Practice-Based Research can create a 'Hopeful Space’. 'Artistic practice-based research is a process that is, ‘dynamic, cyclical and emergent in character [requiring] artists to reflect on, develop and refine their… methods throughout the whole cycle of the project’. (Richards and Sullivan 2005 in Candy and Edmonds 2011, p. 190) I also wanted to share this with you from Participant 8 who played like a Magpie with our story: One for sorrowhardly a day passes when I don't think of youTwo for joythey stand and hold each other for a momentThree for a girlRed wellies. Rain Mac. Pom poms. Finger knitting. Four for a boya boy and a girl on a parapetFive for silverbeing inside a rain dropSix for goldI can see yellow cornSeven for a secret never to be toldthe owner of the cafe abused meEight for a wish you could just listen but not make any judgementsNine for a kissour first kiss, your tongue thrustingTen for a surprise you must not misstoes like snowflakes and drops of evaporated milkEleven for healthI was drawn to it but at the same time I was sickTwelve for wealthmen in dark glasses on high stools behind countersThirteen beware its the devil himself3) I think her last line was for meant me ( or rather I intensified with it as a point of 'Traction’ and it prompted me to share with you one of my most vulnerable 'Traction to Transformation’ moments but one I don’t regret because as Prof Stephen Joseph, 'In What doesn’t Kill Us’, (2011,) says after trauma we can THRIVE: 1) Take Stock2) Harvest Hope3) Re-author4) Identify Change5) Value Change6) Express Change in ActionAnd this is what I did: The first ‘Stress Trauma’ took place between Aug 1st 23. 00 – August 2nd 3am Gatwick Airport. (I didn’t fly to Jamaica). The second ’Transformational Growth' took place between August 5th 13. 00 – August 22nd 2am Sykros Island. 5 days later. (I did fly to Greece) This was a ‘Transformational Encounter’. We can choose to how to change and grow. Throughout the previous two years of my Ph. D. research I have worked with all kinds of ‘mobius strips and worlds’ to try and work out where the touch, traction and transformation points are, where I, you, the artwork, audiences enter, exit and move within the work: B5394232-17F5-442A-913C-2D0C69170AAB. pdfThese existing models are also useful: And this is an ‘art' model of my mobius in action: This is an image of my son ‘falling from the sky’ while the artist mother looks up at the plane he fell from as she simultaneously pilots the plane looking down into her garden from the sky as she stretches out her hand feeling the toy polystyrene plane resting on the grass waiting to take off. It was generated by the artist but packaged by a participant from her last piece ‘Situating the Reciprocal’ and returned to the artist. It is also the mobius strip at work… Another example of looking at Ways of doing it… Way of thinking about it.. And to go back to the start of this post to Participant 5, she went on to stay about technology: If we look at the linguistic origins of the term… cyborgian space, i. e. a space which is extended (functionally, dimensionally, aesthetically) by the intervention of technology. In this sense, it can be imagined as a space we can actually inhabit on a day-to-day basis, albeit a space which somehow amplifies our ‘normal’ way of being… We are cyborgs and that is wonderful. ’Which leads to and leaves us with Bjork and her album/app ‘Biophilia’. This is available as an ‘app’ download but here are some useful You Tube clips which lead us back to both our planetary charts of yesterday Day 14 prompt. In the song/section below ‘cosmogony’ we can journey outward where will it lead you? Bjork Biophilia: Cosmogony External journey. In the song/section below ‘Hollow’ we can journey inward where will it lead you? Bjork Biophilia: Hollow DNA Internal JourneyFinally: I remember a day when pregnant with my first child inside my womb that I read an article that said that there is a 'point when there are as many neural connections being generated inside in a very short period of a few days of the gestation period as there are stars in the galaxy… a galaxy existing inside the mother body… Let me hear your transformational desires… I’m listening… X

Today I met you all in your stories and as I read through them, certain parts leapt out and grabbed me, and I have pasted them below clashing, colliding and encountering each. Word. Form. Person. Image. Story. I invite you today to steal some of these words and images and make them your own. Like a magpie… pick out the 'shiny things' that resonate for you… cultivate them, dialogue with them… make them your own… change their shape, colour tone, hue… I want you to take them back into your nest and add to them, reimagine them, rearrange them like ‘furniture'. Place them where you would like them to be. Sit or lay in one of the objects, look down at a view from on high and tell us what you see sea? Breathe in the air what can you smell. Taste the food. What music is playing? What conversations and sounds to you hear? You have never as yet encountered one another except for my loose ‘introductions and mentionings’ in 'group noticings’ so I invite you to meet here in this virtual space and write into the imagined spaces of each others stories expand and contract the in-between: 'rewriting you only meansthat the spaces I'm not writing in are where I live. ’(Mimi Khalvalti, Apology quoted in Day 5) What ‘traction’ points lie between the words below for you? What might your ‘noticing' and 'playfulness' return to the original author? This is your ‘Us’ story: I am 8 years old. Peacocks preen and fight, cars crash outside, a girl and a boy balance on the parapets. A note book lies on Grandfathers sheep skin rug, my toes peeping out of my sandals look as if they have been made out of snow-flakes and drops of sweet evaporated milk. A turntable with an integrated tape deck plays notes through a building with holes for windows, eyes, our first kiss, your tongue thrusting as the florescent light flickers overhead. Stray dogs, skinny and boney, a dead coconut leaf and over there, through the tree, and beyond the swing, I can see the yellow corn. My bed is painted in red with red bars around it. We painted and glued it there. Sometimes that's all any of us need big Bear. Hardly a day passes when I don't think of you. Journeying with the raindrops down the glass, being inside the raindrop perhaps. Talking about the 'strange sound world' that us hard of hearing people inhabit and then acid trip. I went round Times Square, full of hard core 'girlie' mags and film booths with men in dark glasses on high stools behind counters. I was drawn to it, but at the same time I was sick. Red Wellies. Rain Mac. Pompoms and finger-knitting were f, mother… favourites of mine. The owner of the cafe sexually assaulted me and I didn't tell anybody. Like a dog without a bone. You could just listen, but don't make any judgements. Could you give me a hug, please? Of course. They stand and hold each other for a moment. THINK TRACTION: What part of you do these words touch? Where do they land? What blockages are they signalling? What encounters are they enabling? What action might your words galvanise? What dialogue can we have? And now in any way you wish… images, words, film, sounds… re-write your ‘We’ story out from your bodily responses and places trying feelings first and to not lead with your mind… to know is to feel even if to feel is not yet to know…

Thank you for some really thought provoking responses on Day 7: Touch. Screen Digital Technologies. This response from Participant 11 You 'like' or you ‘fight' is particularly apt for this next stage of ’Traction’ Days 8 14. As a theme for the next 7 days I invite you to think about ‘Traction’ as a kind of ‘drawing' in… or a ‘pulling' away from… or a drawing away from, or pulling in towards… a kind of ‘adhesive friction’, between one thing, (idea, person, screen/object) and another, (idea, person, screen/object) to potentially ‘connect', ‘correct’, ‘heal’, ‘mend’, ‘overcome’, ‘relocate’ ‘reach out’ ‘pull towards 'a given ‘impetus’ or ‘advancement’ or 'desired result’… This ‘motion or potentially 'e-motion’ is as Participant 9 says often ‘Bittersweet’. Today I invite you to start to explore your own life story by writing down a narrative about an intimate encounter between yourself and another person/object/idea/place etc. that you consider to be at an ‘early' ‘threshold moment’ in your past life. Write it in the first person, like it is a story that you are re-living in this very moment – try to go with what first comes into your head… then write it down from your senses and from your heart. To do this, and as a starting point only, I draw upon the work of Narativ, www. narativ. com . Jane Nash and Dan Milne are practitioner's and contemporaries of mine who use this particular method of storytelling and one which I have experienced with them on several occasions to great affect. One of their principles is that there is a reciprocal relationship between listening and telling. And so I am inviting you to tell and I will listen… from a state of noticing and non judgement. I invite you to use their ‘What Happened’ method telling your story by sticking to ‘What Happened?’ as distinct from giving: OpinionsJudgementsInterpretationsCommentaryand resisting a description of internal processes, so avoid: I thoughtI feltI decidedI realisedetc. Instead use the idea of a ‘sensory camera’ What did you hear, see, taste, smell, touch in your ’threshold’ moment/story/event? e. g. 'It is London 1976. I am five years old. I am standing in a small school hall. I have patent leather sandals on my feet. The room smells of plasticine and cooked liver. Muffled voices are coming out from behind the coats that hang haphazardly on hooks by the blue door with a wire window it's centre. My hands are clammy. I see my mothers legs walking away from me towards the… 'Use this Story Arc guide below to ‘map’ your personal story and start by planning your: First line: Last Line: Turnings Point(s): What Happened First Line. Where are the turning point/s? (Narativ) What Happened Last Line. POINTS OF TRACTION (Alice T-C)I look forward to hearing and feeling your stories… 😃 FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO LIKE MORE BACKGROUND AND THEORY/PROMPTS see below: Participant 9 went on to say: 'I sat on the train, I looked around and I am not exaggerating, every single person in the carriage had their head down either on a laptop, iPad or phone. Some people had headphones on, some were texting away, some talking and all were in their own little world. I did not have any eye contact from anyone. I felt excluded and alone. That sense of being excluded made me want to reach for my phone and I realised I was only wanting to do so because I felt alone. I wanted to 'connect' with someone, something of interest. I felt a different sense of aloneness sitting there on a train full of people. Attention was elsewhere. It was focused in and out via digital devices. It was not in the immediate space, environment around the people. I do it myself and I know that I am cutting off and going somewhere more comfortable.’ (Participant 9). Many of you also mentioned ‘Trump’: 'Trump is nothing but fake peddling fake news, and yet the residents of the most powerful Country in the world has put their faith in him, (well just under half of them in actual fact)!’ (Participant 13). As I was starting to write this yesterday, 15th May 2017, I also happened to listened upon the attached radio programme. It was called ‘Truth’ Post-Truth and Revolution… StartTheWeek-20170515-PostTruthAndRevolution. mp3To summarise the debate: The speakers talked of 'emotional narratives with more powerful resonances than hard facts'. That our new technologies have a semblance of 'voracity and viral power’, and that depending on the ‘impetus’ or ‘desired result’ can give ‘certain lies… certain traction at certain times.’ So with such fertile ground for 'blaming someone for something’ their is a collapse of 'possibility and potentiality’ bought about through a disbelief in ‘political' agency (truth/facts) and the replacement of ‘personal' agency (celebrity/emotion) a symptom rather than a cause of our times… With emotional resonance overtaking facts, the algorithms that drive social media rocket boost this tendency to feed us with things ‘certain lies’ that we 'feel already’, feeding us dis-information across a network of friends and family who we trust and we forget to be critical of each other… 'We live in an echo chamber – we hear things we want to hear… ’So what we are doing today is perhaps starting to look at how we can create an emotional narrative that brings 'credibility into our ecosystems' – ways to debunk the post-truths by using emotion not as a short cut to sustaining ‘old power systems’ but to 'research new and innovative ways' of challenging our existing hegemony, by bring a variety of voices, giving greater context to feelings and subjective ‘truths’ plural and perhaps seeking to help us think more critically and affect each other more deeply? Trumps ‘heart’ drove the bombing on Syria… not rationality. This is what happens with ‘viral’ emotion in the wrong hands… It is 'Intimately ‘rational’ to distrust our institutions… we need to recognise the power structures behind the viral ’truths’ – there is not one truth. This is Our times… what emotional narratives to we want to resonate that counter ‘certain lies’ with ‘certain truths’ many subjectivities… many voices, many potentialities, many choices… X

How would you describe the intimacy and value of your ‘mediated’ relationships, (virtual rather than physical representations and embodiments of yourself/other) through your mobile/i-pad/laptop/desktop/watch/other? How do you use it, what social platforms/communication methods to you use, how often, with whom, where and when and why How do you feel that your use of social media fulfils and enables a sense of ‘connectedness, of belonging, of identification’ with others? (Jsselsteijn, W and Joy van Baren et al. ‘Staying in Touch’, 2003) In what ways do you experience virtual relationships as ‘lesser’ than physically being in a room with someone/body face-to-face? Or do you experience virtual relationships as ‘better’, or maybe something totally different altogether? As Participant 20 wrote on Day 1 regarding attention, she felt that this quote by Rebecca Solnit encapsulates much of how she feels about how technology affects the purity and sanctity of the human attention, acceptance and appreciation of self and others. We are so distracted all the time that we are not truly present with others or even ourselves much of the time. How much of this is your experience or not…?

My Mum always said ‘I know when you are having a trauma, I can tell by what you do with your hair!’ Over my 43 years my hair has been short, long, pink, blue, white, orange, red, brown, shaved, extended and au-natural. Mum is right. If I can’t change my life or my inner world I change my hair. Thankfully for a few years now the balance has tipped from ‘exterior’ to more ‘interior’ world change and my hair is pretty ‘normal’ now. My ‘alarm’ signals are less ‘performed’ and my world is reconfiguring ‘inside out’ rather than ‘outside in’. As we are all sharing in this journey not all ‘touch’ or ‘encounters’, or ‘emotions’ or ‘relationships’ are ‘nice’. Some ‘aha’ moments come from places of deep discord, disharmony and trauma. In 2015 I met a man that changed my life. He woke me up – I left my marriage (a relationship of 18 years) and I flew the nest. With the man I met I felt ‘alive’. Unfortunately, the man was not just my lover, but my liar. However, I still very much value that encounter. Why? Because he enabled me to see my own long lie and I left my marriage to live my truth. In my 2-year encounter with this he also taught me how to get back into my ‘feminine’. I realised I had arguably been living a ‘male’ and ‘maternal’ role in an unhappy marriage. My encounter with the masculine aspects of this man, allowed me to allow my own more feminine aspects to re-emerge. I put hair extensions in my hair, I took my own room and painted it ‘pink’, I dressed more ‘girlie’, I ‘tried on’ the feminine. This outside display allowed my inner world to reform. Reintegrate. Rebalance myself. After only 6 weeks I repainted the room back to white, but my inner feminine had rehomed herself inside me. I was never going to leave her again so I took her with me and we flew together. I invite you today to ‘try on your inner feminine’ what does it feel like? What does it mean? Whether we are residing in male or female bodies we live in Trump’s anti –feminine world, May’s anti feminine aspect. Where does your inner feminine reside. Does she need some love? Love that you can share with our world to change it? For those of you who like a bit of theory here is some, for those of you that don’t – go and sit in your wardrobe amongst the clothes, your clothes, your partner’s clothes, wrap yourself up in your favourite chair, spend all day in bed nesting cuddling your feminine self or a desiring and desirous object. Nurture your inner feminine today in all it multiple aspects. Let her surface, speak, become known. What does she say? ‘It is acknowledged that gender, determined by different genitalia, remains synonymous with female oppression. Much feminist discourse and subsequent queer studies therefore disclaim any return to this biological binary, seeing notions of essential self as mythical and gender/sex positions as instead socially and culturally constructed (Butler, 1990 & 1993) . Conversely, French feminist Cixous, reclaims the biological female body and associated femininities as source of celebration and liberation. Cixous names this process ecriture feminine, a method of female writing from deep within the body. Cixous proposes that all genders and sexualities can appropriate ecriture feminine, within a third space, ‘each one’s location in self… of the presence – variously manifest and insistent according to each person, male or female – of both sexes’ (Cixous 1976 in Marks and De Courtivron 1981b: 254). Indeed, her concept of an awareness of a presence within the self, of both sexes, to the ‘non exclusion either of the difference, or of one sex… [this] ‘self permission’, gives all bodies the potential to feel with multiplicity. (Cixous 1976 in Marks and De Courtivron 1981: 254) The Oedipus myth, normalised as representative of the entire human condition, only refers to father/son, mother/son relationships. It denies any matrilineal relationship of women connected to mothers, sisters and daughters or any suggestion of father/son, father/mother relationships that allow for a female jouissance within and between male bodies also. Roselind Gill (2007) refers to this as adopting a ‘feminine sensibility’. Where might adopting a ‘feminine sensibility’ perhaps help us reform our selves and our world in a different way gently but fiercely challenging, political, cultural and social governance from the inside out? Alice X

Artist, Participant, Group. Participant 21 shared on Day 9 this image/quote at first I thought it was a colourful 70’s print, just like Participant 10’s sleeping bag from Day 13 but on closer inspection I saw in the pattern there is a super hero just like you and me!… always look beneath the covers… looks can be deceiving… Artist: Jen Seevinck, engages with a lot of documented reflective practice in her process. Reflection-in-action methods include framing and reframing problems, exercising knowledge during practice and reflecting on the results of any practical decisions made. After (Schon, 2003), she adopts a 'bottom up' approach to research where theories are distilled from the data [my prompts your responses my noticings] as opposed to the data being tested against a ‘set or fixed’ hypothesis. Glaser and Strauss, 1967, in Candy and Edmonds, 2011) Participant: Jindal-Snape & Vettraino say, ‘It is important to compare different techniques for different individuals and see what changes need to be made to the technique specific to that individual's needs. ' (2007: 116) Group: Helen Nicolson refers to a type of pedagogy called, ‘Reflect’ a strategy that ‘encourages stories to emerge and discussions to take place, a creative process on which the facilitators build when the group is ready’ (2005: 42). Frances Babbage, a performance ‘theorist' is interested in participant-audience experience and how it works, she says 'The spect-actor, like Sullivan’s reflexive practitioner, shifts continually between action and reflection, immersion and detachment, emotion and analysis, and always in the interest of deepening understanding and promoting dialogue' (Babbage 2016: 50). So today I invite you to invite someone ‘out' and allow them 'in’ through your listening. What is their story? What needs to be heard? How does it feel to hear it? Where do you feel it? Your listening allows their story to be heard and to emerge you complete their story in your listening… wow! What a gift you are! 😃 Maybe (if you are feeling really brave) you could even invite a ‘stranger’ to ’story’ with you and practice really 'hearing them’.. or perhaps you contact someone who you’ve not spoken to in a long while and that you might have ‘unfinished resonances/conversations’ with, lkkperhaps you would like to say… ‘hello’… ‘sorry’… ‘I love you’ or 'Can you tell me again… I think I might be able to hear you now’… notice what happens for you, and potentially for them (ask for feedback if you are feeling a total superhero…) what happens to you both when you meet each other in listening and being and co-affecting… Think in your listening about: Your prompt. Their response. Your Noticing. Perhaps use 'Reflect’ (Nicolson, 2005: 42) to encourage their story to emerge and your conversation discussions to take place… actionreflectionimmersiondetachmentemotion analysis'and always work within 'the interest of deepening understanding and promoting dialogue’ (Nicolson, 2005: 42) go for it wonder woman, batman, superman, jedi warrior witch doctor, artist, writer, dancer, nurse, musician, artist, goddess, gardener, drummer, programmer, playwright, filmmaker, mother, father, brother, sister, friend, muse, painter, designer, paper-cutter, performer, woman, man, ungendered, transforming teachers… Prompts of intention… And if you have not yet shared your ‘soup or such like meal’… maybe you could combine todays prompt and that of Day 17 with thoughts of the place your soup for the soul stories will activate and hold as sent to Participant 11… Kintsugi (or kintsukuroi) is a Japanese method for repairing broken ceramics with a special lacquer mixed with gold, silver, or platinum. The philosophy behind the technique is to recognize the history of the object and to visibly incorporate the repair into the new piece instead of disguising it. The process usually results in something more beautiful than the original.

Spinning Solids. Spinning Solids. mov Structural Holes. Today I invite you to reflect to your network of friends, acquaintances, colleagues and to ‘map’ them for me. The ‘map’ on the left above is my map of how I selected participants for my last piece ‘Point. Forty’ It depicts the reflective process I undertook to identify four participants from my own ‘network’ to become pco-participative creators in the project based on a) those who I had only known for under 5 years and b) who would engage in an ‘active’ creative relationship with me in order to get to know each other better. This drawing also drew upon: Burt’s (2001) ‘Structural Holes’ theory of the potential of the spaces between us and Granovetter's (2007) ‘Weak Tie Hypothesis’, (that for example if Participant's 1 4 were each ‘strongly' connected to me, (the artist), that the real ‘untapped’ potential would in fact instead lie between Participant to Participant. That this ‘weaker’ tie could offer more potency. Once you have drawn your map, with you in the centre add main ’strong' branches outward to ‘direct’ people/influencers in your life, then from these ‘direct’ people identify and connect other people on who you have met ‘through’ the direct contacts and have remained somehow on your ‘radar', perhaps with a weaker or dotted line. Come up with your own system to code and identify ‘who’ has perhaps now fallen off, (like the mud flying off from a spinning solid like a wheel or a muddy boot), perhaps use a big red X symbol or the such like, also identify who you have recently ‘picked up’ either as ‘a fresh encounter’ or a ‘renewal/alteration’ of a relationship which can now shift gear through you being able to deepen/lessen the balance/intensity/commitment to it because you have perhaps let others ‘go’ or welcomed new ‘in'. Then look at the spaces in-between. You might want to colour them in see how large they are, what shape they are perhaps use different colours for different possibilities/headings/opportunities and create a colour key to identify what these headings are? Then perhaps circle who you would really like to get to know more! Who were figures of traction and why? Enjoy making and reviewing your ‘relationship’ map! :) Structural Holes. strong and weak ties why your weak ties matter Granovetter (2007)

(Plutchik, Wheel of Emotion) The morning of the Election results. It is 4.47am, June 9th 2017. No firm conclusions yet. A ‘hung’ parliament looking highly likely. It is 5. 59am, BBC Live, ‘It is a hung parliament’ and ‘That's the story’. (David Dimbleby 09/06/2017). Jeremy Corbyn’s campaign offered up ‘Some Hope’. He smiled, talked, touched, involved. Positive, Optimistic, Engaging. An Alternative. Teresa May's campaign offered up ‘Some Hope’. She stared, instructed, withdrew, avoided. Revealing that an inability to communicate, listen and share on a human level, does not achieve strength, equality, or stability. Thank you so much for having the courage to 'be real’ over these past 21 days. In a sense this has been ‘my own campaign’ and it has been reciprocated, so thank you so much for gifting me with your own authenticity and let us celebrate how much we have co-affected each other as activists for change. This is my last new ‘Prompt’ of Phase 1 Day 22. So having now ‘completed 22 days of reflection’ what ‘Resources of Hope’ can you offer ‘up’ to take forward into Phase 2 for yourself and for the group to together continue to create 'Transformational Encounters: Touch, Traction, Transform’ which will touch, trouble and transform future audiences within the TETTT exhibition, May 2018. How have you? Felt your own longings? Acted in alignment with your own truth? Taken the… Courage to be real? Touched, Traction-ed and Transformed your own life purpose? So far. Real isn't how you are made, ' said the Skin Horse. 'It's a thing that happens to you. When a child loves you for a long, long time, not just to play with, but REALLY loves you, then you become Real. ''Does it hurt?' asked the Rabbit. 'Sometimes,' said the Skin Horse, for he was always truthful. 'When you are Real you don't mind being hurt. ''Does it happen all at once, like being wound up,' he asked, 'or bit by bit? 'It doesn't happen all at once,' said the Skin Horse. 'You become. It takes a long time. That's why it doesn't happen often to people who break easily, or have sharp edges, or who have to be carefully kept. Generally, by the time you are Real, most of your hair has been loved off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints and very shabby. But these things don't matter at all, because once you are Real you can't be ugly, except to people who don't understand. I suppose you are real?  said the Rabbit. And then he wished he had not said it, for he thought the Skin Horse might be sensitive. But the Skin Horse only smiled. Quote above from 'The Velveteen Rabbit', Margery Williams Biano, first published in 1922.