Super sexy super messy kerry welly shoe Yes! (going to need send mrs wiggy winkle round to do some tidying and perfuming… or maybe mr. mcgregor to discipline… or naughty peter rabbit… whilst I go and dig diggory diggory delvet some more…

Transformational encounters Growing up in a moment – I realised that everything can change in a flash. (I was 8 years old, my son Henry was 8 years old) he too would have felt 'excited about being allowed to sleep in the big double bed because Mummy was sleeping at another house.' and then crash. Realisation. Mummy and Daddy now lived in separate houses. Reaching for my Step-Mother’s throat and pushing here towards the wall and screaming at her that she will never speak about my Mother, or me and my siblings in that way ever again. I am 13 years old. We are responsible for others hurting people feels utterly hideous. We all have the potential to feel power, love, hatred, pain, pleasure we need to look after each other. I will love, but I will love on my own terms from a position of equality and respect. I can be loved as an equal. I can love as an equal. I am a fighter – just like my Mother.

We all come out from between our mother's legs. From there we first see the light of the world Pipilotti Rist (2011)LOVE Mrs Wiggy Winkles GHOST in the garden videos!!!! 😃 Particularly like Mrs Wiggy Quietly Creeping… Slow Mo Noticing… I will add our performance from Borderlines 2017 in here dear delight! 😃 Washing washing washing… Sacks of white holding dreams and waiting to be stuffed… Memories… Blackbirds in a pie… Mrs Marple… X

Day 1: Relating to relationships. Complex and wonderfully strange. Nurture. A quick kind glance. Shared frustration. Energies and rhythms beneath the surface. Qualities of feelings. Noticing. Gifts of noticings. Gifting self space and time. Magnitude and difficulties of being with others. Portals of acceptance. Incoherence. Transformation teeters. Noticing the unnoticeable. Allowing, allowing… allowing…

A murmuring transforming whispering heart listens.

Day 13: Noticings. BRILLIANT AND WONDERFUL!!! SENDING LOVE BACKATCH KELLY FK Day 12: Noticings. Day 4& 5: Individual Noticings. Day 20: Noticings. Day 2: Individual noticings. Day 7: Noticings. Day 16: Noticings. Minx not Moth. Day 17: Noticings Naughty Nanny Day 1 Individual Noticings. Alice. Day 18: Noticings. Day 3: Individual noticings. Day 8 and 9: Noticings. (Also see Group Noticings Story). Day 15: Noticings… Humanity ‘is’ worth fighting for Day 19: Noticings. Heart felt thanks for your Individual Noticings for day 6 Day 14: Noticings. Darling, darling you’re fantastic… Day 11: Noticings. Scent of a Woman. Bird Woman. Day 6: Individual Noticings. Day 21: Noticings… Day 10: Noticings.

Watch out for her foot. Touching boys hair. Silken. I am a Woman. I am a Mum. A solar heart of love. Naughty Nanny and my left Nipple. A wish. Am imprint in the grass. Love sized. ‘I love you Mummy – you bring enrichment to my life’ my son once said. Touching the world. Naked. Outside. Mark is my dear friend. Mini me. Stretchy me. Focused me. Body sound. Erect nipple. Stilted. Sexy. Reveal. Concealed. Zip.

Kerry: Wrapping ourselves up in your clothes… reminds me of you sitting under the tree in your garden nesting and eating… Neat Kerry space of girlie heels and folded ironed neat (not shoved in) tops and trousers… I like to look out as I get dressed in the morning. I am a nester I like to have my things close by. I’d not thought about that before… I like to smell nice it makes me feel feminine. It makes me feel in control. (I wish I could send you some scent…) Mrs Wiggy – like Mrs Tiggy ‘Winkle’… scary and strict, but she was strong, fair and intelligent. She smelt feminine and powerful… and Mrs Tiggy smelt of freshly ironed laundry but she was spikey and lives under the tree in your garden where you eat beetroot vagina wraps and drink builders tea… but watch out for her prickles on your bare bottom if making love bare in the garden by moonlight! 😉… I still enjoy playing with the boys… Mrs. Wiggly showed me that smelling good as a woman placed you in a position of strength and knowledge – YES! 'smelling intelligence'… Patrick Suskin ‘Perfume… ’I always wanted long, thick hair… me too… My hair is not one of my most favourite attributes… mine neither… I lose my hair when I am stressed. That makes me feel utterly horrible and unfeminine. YES me too…:(. I’m a kind of in-between. I’m not really attractive like a girl, but I’m pretty cool like a boy. I am strong, sporty, fair and intelligent – and I smell nice… just like on my wedding day when I felt extremely feminine… I liked playing with boys (in more ways than one; -). Will Kerry still love me when she sees this…? What does my wardrobe say about me… my smell… my feminine masculine balance… my overspill…

Central to my world in blue are Myself, Neil, Jack and Sam… My arty friends are Sophy, Alice, Mark and Simon… My besties are Sally, Laura, Vip, Steve, Sarah and Tark?

We move, live, work, eat, breathe, cohabit as a little unit of 4. A family Kelly tea, where we would play games together and eat our favourite food and I would create some 'telling cards’, which asked questions like: What is the most amazing thing about Daddy, Mummy, Jack, Sam (D, M, J, S)? If you could ask D, M, J, S to do one thing differently what would it be? What do you most like about yourself? What is your best skill and your worst trait? etc. Tell us why you are epic? Tell us why D, M, J, S is epic? etcetera. My late ‘Naughty Nanny’ with a smile and a wink that looked like an angel and a naughty nymph all at once. We would make sandwiches using soft white bread, real butter and raspberry jam. The crusts would be cut off and they would be cut lovingly into triangles. She would call me Kweggie (Mrs. Wiggly… Mrs Tiggy)… and I would every now again hug her and she would hug me back. Talcum-powder. Tea-cosy. I always felt utterly safe, utterly loved and utterly protected from everything and everyone when I was at their house. She didn’t want to worry anyone. She didn’t want to cause a fuss. She thought it would go away. She kept it hidden from everyone. FUCK! WHY DIDN’T YOU TELL ME? WHY DIDN’T YOU TELL SOMEONE? We could have hugged so many more times, we could have had triangular shaped sandwiches until we felt sick, we could have drunk tea until the sun went down, we could have hugged and I could have held your soft, soft hands again and again and again… But, you didn’t want bother anyone.

Apparently Eudaemonic is the way forward to feeling most fulfilled and heading towards the ‘trance dance (sp?!? but interesting)… transcendence mobius’ Expanding, rising, transcending the cycle, circle, construct… Flourish. (Insert ref to one of your earlier posts). Understand. Acceptance of your total uniqueness and beauty. Fight. We HAVE too. This is OUR time. Rage against the machine… fulfilment v success… Self. This in the world is an experiential 10 inner smile needing more gentleness? Humanity. Activism through Art. A different way. Instincts. Brilliant this embodied Kerry ‘knowing’ is so high… :) Offer. Always offering kindness and hope and compassion… Learn. To be calmer with yourself trusting that instinctual Kerry needs nurture. And helping hands along the way… Mother daughter sister friend

I see you Kerry. I'm with you Kerry xxxIf I could dance in response to you I would right now photograph and tree and sunshine and spin… this will need to come to you later from me but the feeling is here… 😃 Wow sister I LOVE this! If in doubt, smile… I got your back on this one too and we both got our smile… Recognition: To be calmer with myself and with my boys. You are: quirky, unusual, original and exceptional. Remember to take the time to truly be with you… you are enough more than enough… tummy of time and all! ;)

Torn. Feeling spaces multiple. My parents divorced when I was 9, it was not a good time, for anyone. I miss them both terribly. How can love be divided yet so strong? I looked at her skin, her eyes. She is utterly beautiful. She is ‘the’ most powerful, strong, determined, loving woman I know. Just like her daughter… Do we know we are loved before we are born? A very glamorous, handsome woman. Fierce as a father. They have left a mark on my Mum. It’s not outwardly visible, but is seeps through her eyes and skin if ever she talks about them. This has also made my Mum into a fighter my Mum ‘is’ a fighter. My Mum is also fierce. She had to be. Women have to be fierce. I held my Dad’s arm, we ate nachos and chilli and laughed, we talked about the meaning of life, the magnitude of the known universe, politics and evolution. We stayed up until midnight. He is the most caring, soft, intelligent, loving man I know. I feel small right now I feel like metaphorically crawling back into my Mother’s womb. Do women seep through time together? Thank you for the beautiful beautiful torn image for me – thank you lovely Kerry. I feel that you are a 'powerful, strong, determined, loving woman' and I see you and value you so much. Thank you – darlin.

Random trains of thoughts and actions. Cuppa tea underneath a tree. Secretly. Non neighbourly. A nest, as an object, is the culmination of a strange improvisation whereby a creature (be that animal, human…) undertakes a process of knotting, binding and layering organic materials in order to create a protective space for itself and its off-spring. How very odd. My motherly tendencies today have manifested as a tasty looking vagina. Placement in my ‘feeling comforted space’. An energetic space place of holding Kerryness holding her son in hope and vulnerability. Being. I LOVE EATING too. ‘This feels like a pretty repugnant way to dine sat in my bush (excuse the pun 😉) I suck my beetroot like a agnathan fish.’ – just startlingly beautiful… (I have a heart warm feeling inside me). She uses her mouth to experience the world Feeling comforted – feeling safe – feeling satisfied. Changing dynamics, tones, resting and leaving spaces, places, speed, endurance, timing, time to go, time to stay, time to play. Hot time. Slow time. Kerry time. My time. I get it. I get you. You being you. Beautiful… Funny… Focused. Kind. Equality.

OOOOOOHHHHHH MMMMMMYYYYYY GGGGGGOOOOOOODDDDDDNNNNNEEEESSSSSS! Beautiful Alice, I love you utterly, deeply, intimately, and with abandonment right now. I just had to let you know that I am smiling from ear-to-ear reading your response to day 6’s encounter. Your wardrobe is expressive, eclectic, wonderfully full, bright, intelligent and I bet it smells utterly rich and gorgeous, just like you. I love your wardrobe soooo much more than mine I wish my wardrobe looked like yours. My orderly space makes me giggle because I know how I like to order myself I find comfort in this kind of nesting. When really, the chaotic thoughts and ideas that speed in and out of my head constantly, belies this orderliness it’s not what's really going on for me. And, Mrs. Tiggy Winkle, and thoughts of wrapping myself in her clean linen this is one of my guilty pleasures. Mrs Wiggly – is my Mrs Tiggy ‘Winkle’. To be known henceforth as Mrs 'Wiggly Winkle’ she is my alter ego… she is scary and strict, yet kind and a bit silly, and smells of fresh linen she is strong, fair and intelligent. She will always smell feminine and powerful… and Mrs Wiggly Winkle, smelling of freshly ironed laundry will now always live under the tree in my garden. I will go and sit with her regularly and eat beetroot vagina wraps and drink builders tea… we will watch out for the prickles on our bare bottoms as we fall in love with our own naked, strong, female bodies as we lie together in the garden by moonlight! 😉… How uncanny that I should have taken a picture of my bedlinen, drying on the line, on the same day as I took the picture of my wardrobe… I didn’t post it because it didn’t flow with my thoughts. But you already knew this about me Alice. You knew of my Mrs. Wiggly Winkle secret even before I knew about it myself! WOW that has blown me away. You are an angel who shines a light back into my very core you allow me to see through the meshes of my outer self in order to experience what is pulsing excitedly deep inside. Thank you lovely, lovely Alice! xxx

Twinkly Eyes. White smiles. Lunch Lovely Daughter. Motherhood is transformation in process. Motherhood is process. Motherhood is a continuous… STRONG. BOLD. BEHOLDING VISION. She carries so much that many wouldn’t see. She wouldn’t allow them to see… I see her. I hear her. She is heart-felt. My mother of five. Carrying our hearts, burdens, loses, regrets, pain, joys, successes, struggles, achievements. She will always keep fighting. Not watched this but looked potentially interesting… in article above… X

THREE BOYS and essentially blue with a splattering of RED… Tonight KF we are going to see: Last week KF I took Participant 3 to see: How weird and amazing is that and this is what I wrote about her: Arundhati RoyJune 6th 2017Woman who lives in the country of her own skin. She has no visas. Archive of discoveries. Map of a universe. Politics between things the connections. Just documenting the atrocities doesn't tell you the stories. Only the truth can be fiction, a type of psychosis, these are the truths floating in the air. Meta-art a tapestry of broken garments, fragments, stories hearts… Echoes of things that have some traction in my head… I draft in my head a lot… Not linier but add ons… it's circulating in on itself circular so not much lost universes within universes but complete in themselves, kali storytelling dance… When things start closing down I start opening up to create a little piece of space (art) Pray song universe that you try and constructMajorities v minoritiesArtist and a visionaryVocal rage against women who are perceived to not be towing the party line… Intimidate mutilate particularly women… right wing trolls My favourite book and yet I can never quite remember why… Need to read this: Beautiful, bright, activist Woman.

Kerry: The notion of data, and how this seems to be driving an epidemic of fake news, of fake stories, of our fake selves… Data… about us, what we like, what we don’t like, and how this is used to profile and drive the media. Data in this context is at once skewed because it is not representative of our whole selves. How we depict ourselves on social media is warped by a need to fit in – another mask… Surely, this goes against its overriding intentions to connect? My gut reaction is that our mediated selves are somewhat detached and removed within a social media context. Will our social media landscape become a feminist landscape Johanna Blakley? Kerry: The notion of data, and how this seems to be driving an epidemic of fake news, of fake stories, of our fake selves… Data… about us, what we like, what we don’t like, and how this is used to profile and drive the media. Data in this context is at once skewed because it is not representative of our whole selves. How we depict ourselves on social media is warped by a need to fit in – another mask… Surely, this goes against its overriding intentions to connect? My gut reaction is that our mediated selves are somewhat detached and removed within a social media context. Will our social media landscape become a feminist landscape Johanna Blakley? How can we rewrite ourselves and our behavior from the inside out or are we just being pulled in and re-consumed within the construct and control of social consumption including consumption of the Woman… It is dangerous to assume that our social consumption can give a true reflection of who we are. I would say that for the most part, all of my meaningful relationships have been nurtured through ‘touch’. Quite literally being touched and feeling touched by people. being face-to-face with another human being… This can be extended and developed through technology, but my feelings of being in relation to another human comes from spending time with them; first and foremost in, so called, physical space. Sending you a hug 'right now' xxx Thank you my darling – you too xxx Thank you for caring and wondering how I am holding up with all of this info right now – I am feeling very happy and glowy inside but also very much like this!!!!

I am Lepidoptera, no I am Lepidopkera for I glitter like a minx not moth. 'Mistakes in copying… can… produce evolutionary change’ (David Attenborough 1979). The imperfect evolution of the ‘me’ butterfly Temporary dislocation make the mistake! The copy is then imperfect, but utterly wonderful. The name Lepidoptera is derived from the Greek, meaning scaly winged,  and refers to the characteristic covering of microscopic dustlike scales on the wings. Scale, in zoology, small plate or shield forming part of the outer skin layers of certain animals. Scales provide protection from the environment and from predators. What is your scale? What coats you? What scale do you go traverse musically. How do you feel? Medium Angel Wings Crowns & Wings Symbols Sparkle Designs",

Raindrops patting their backs. Long enough to notice that they balance at the edge of parapet – a parapet that can never be re-built once they commit to falling… A stray dog howls.

'Self-sufficient and self-contained, at least on the surface '…travelling, movement, change. She likes contact and is open to other people… ‘Attending to your needs to get away from time to time will help scratch the seemingly incurable itch for something more. ’Connection rather than disconnectionOne of the key themes Kerry and Mark have been researching is how to reveal the tension between human connection and disconnection. In a time where it seems that our differences are used to divide us rather than unite us, it seems even more pressing to appreciate the tenderness of human contact and to search for ways to connect rather than disconnect. Since their very first residency, notions of intimacy and delicacy have continued to provide them with rich grounds for experimenting with movement and text. She has a lively intelligence and goes to the heart of things. Mars represents the desire for action and physical energy… worry when… not producing anything… worry about whether what they've produced will measure up… just checking… are you with me… inside outside looking self…

Today I attempted to think about the question of nests/nesting/behaviours as I went about my day. The journey was both strange and unexpected… It came out as random trains of thoughts and actions. Here is where I began: Nests: Knotting, binding, layering, clusters, bulbous, delicate centers, interlocking, vibrating into place. Trial and error, materials surrounding you, making good. Creating a safe space, repetition, container, discarding what’s not necessary, feeling safe. Finding comfort, creating hollows. Strength. Constellations, gathering, providing structure, creating a protected space, shelter, security, mother, life. Vulnerability. Today I feel vulnerable, not for myself, but for my eldest son who is taking his SATS exams. I revert to type gosh I’m so bloody English I’ll have a cuppa. Feeling comforted – feeling safe – feeling satisfied. I come back from dropping my youngest son off at school. I then found myself wandering into my garden and watching the birds, I search for a nest. I then search for a place to hide myself. I sit underneath my gorgeous mahonia bush. I feel a bit of a prat as there are builders next door. But hey, no one can see me in my secret nesting spot. Here, right now, is my nest for the morning. A thought A nest, as an object, is the culmination of a strange improvisation whereby a creature (be that animal, human…) undertakes a process of knotting, binding and layering organic materials in order to create a protective space for itself and its off-spring. Nesting – feeling safe, feeling comforted, feeling as if you’re back in the womb. Giving my womb to another human – nesting, nurturing, creating a space within myself for another. Feeding, opening, giving, receiving, creating a container. Protecting I return to thinking of my son I want to protect him. I sit and send him my energy. It’s 10am he’ll be starting his paper now. I get out from under the bush, my ass hurts. Lunch! Given that the clitoris develops from a homologous set of tissues in the embryo, and it’s supplied by equivalent nerves to the penis, it shouldn’t come as a surprise that the neural and chemical mechanism of clitoral erection is exactly the same. (Alice Roberts The incredible unlikeliness of being 2014, pp. 247) My lunch looks up at me and opens up like an inviting vagina… How very odd. My motherly tendencies today have manifested as a tasty looking vagina. I go and place it in my ‘feeling comforted space’. That feels better. Not sure why, but it does. Back to the questions nest/nesting/behaviour. Sitting in my ‘feeling comforted space’ I realise that feeding my face feels extremely comforting. Food nests provide a vessel in which food can be given and consumed. Necessity turns into pleasure. I LOVE EATING. I begin to think about vaginas again and mouths… This safe place is a very strange place indeed. Being jawless, agnathan fish are somewhat limited in what they can eat. Early jawless fish were filter feeders, but modern lampreys have developed a particularly repugnant approach to dining. They are parasitic blood-suckers: they latch on to their victims with their round mouths, full of sharp teeth. (Alice Roberts The incredible unlikeliness of being 2014, pp. 79-80) This feels like a pretty repugnant way to dine sat in my bush (excuse the pun 😉) I suck my beetroot like a agnathan fish. This safe place is a very strange place indeed. Nests I come back to your quotes Alice. In his book ‘The Eyes of the Skin’ Finnish Architect Prof. Juhani Pallasmaa writes that 'Touch is the sensory mode that integrates our experience of the world with that of ourselves.’ (2012: 11)I begin to think of the mouth as a sensory surface which allows us to experience the world. Time to go I leave my nesting place to go and let my friend’s dog out. I am struck by the way she seems to nest, she finds a spot, she nestles down and then she proceeded to decapitate her toy giraffe and leaves it headless. Perhaps she knows about the agnathan fish too???? She certainly has sharp teeth. I notice how she uses her mouth to experience the world. Feeling comforted – feeling safe – feeling satisfied. She clearly feels comforted, this is her safe space. Today, Rae and I found a safe space to nest and to feel contented, and we both found a way to do this through our mouths… Shit, it’s 1: 30 gotta go I’ve got a meeting at LCB depot about The LAB. My day changes. My hidden nest at home feels like a very long way away.

Occasionally, the DNA copying process involved in reproduction may go wrong. A mistake may be made at a single point or a length of DNA may become temporarily dislocated and be reinserted in the wrong place. The copy is then imperfect and the proteins it will create may be entirely different. When this occurred in the first organisms on earth, evolution began, for such mistakes in copying are the source of variations from which natural selection can produce evolutionary change (David Attenborough 1979). temporary dislocationmistakecopy is then imperfectdifferentfor such mistakes in copyingproduce evolutionary changeThe imperfect evolution of the ‘me' butterflyWhat layers have you have shed…? Temporary dislocation make the mistake! The copy is then imperfect, but utterly wonderful. Removing myself from the pressures of trying to be perfect. Disregarding others and those external influences, which are destructive to my inner self. (Image below)What happens when you become ‘transparent’ a state that is not caterpillar nor either yet butterfly what rests in these places of ‘becoming?’ I am a child, a daughter, a mother, a lover, a woman, a human. I am young, yet I carry scars. I am wise, but I still have so much to learn. I am older than I feel. I am a creator, an optimist, a protector, a minx, I am powerful, I am beholden. child-creator daughter-optimist mother-protector lover-minx woman-powerful human-beholden I can be transparent and yet fully present as all of the above (image below). I can be different. For such mistakes in copying can produce evolutionary change… I can soar. I can take off. I can be transparent and fly… I am a beautiful transparent ‘me’ Lepidoptera.

Day 9 response KF Traction, slippage, loss Day 8 response KF Traction Day 19 response KF Wheel of life Day 21 response KF My bag is packed! Day 18 response KF Murmuration dynamic living Day 14 response KF planetary musings Day 16 response KF I am a beautiful 'me' Lepidoptera Day 15 response KF I see you Alice. I'm with you Alice xxx Day 7 response KF Social media and the end of gender Johanna Blakley 2010 Day 17 response KF A lunch-time dinner date with my late, great 'Naughty Nanny'! Day 1 response KF: The 5 A's Day 3 response KF Hands Days 4& 5 response KF Feeling torn Day 20 response KF I'm with you Mum, I hear you, I feel you. Prelude TETTT Time, Energy, Today, Together, Tomorrow Day 10 response KF Our 'us' story Love's first kiss (then there was emptiness) Day 12 response KF Day 11 response KF Day 2 response KF Nest/nesting/behaviour Day 13 response KF Day 6 response KF Smelling female

Time to just 'be', is something I am noticing. I notice how my energy is quiet today. Today is bright and kind. Together? I want us to be together, always, but not in this moment. This moment is about my time and energy, and how it gently pulsates in today's air. Together is for tomorrow… Tomorrow my energy will change. Is this something we could notice together, perhaps?

There’s a whole language around these murmurations with the starlings coming together in dribs and drabs, gradually coalescing like smoke and all too quickly the display is over as they all rapidly drop to roost. Society as murmuration? Living as murmuration? Responding and working together as murmuration? A thought: Could we imagine that our thoughts and actions are part of a huge dance. This dance moves and sweeps like a starling murmuration. We can move, adapt, change direction, but we are always in accordance with the rhythm of our own live-living. And, like a Klein bottle, our intersecting selves (both with our self and with our other), we are continuously moving along a Möbius pathway, responding to the rhythms around us. Dynamic relationshipsSometimes at the culmination of the experience, the drama appears for itself. It is seen. Not actually, if that means corresponding to a sense impression striking the body’s visual apparatus. Actually: as in in act. This appearing of the drama of an experience’s self-enjoyment in the act is the semblance. Say you catch sight of a mouse out of the corner of your eye. You don’t so much see the mouse as you feel the arc of its movement with your eyes. You feel the movement continuing out of the immediate past when it was just outside your visual field, coming in. If the movement is felt to be toward you, the feeling of the immediate past includes the immediate future of your movement taking off in the opposite direction. You don’t actually see the vector of the mouse’s movement, or your own. You immediately experience the dynamic unity of the event mouse incoming, you outgoing phasing forward in the form of a felt line of approach. This direct perception of the arc of an event gathering up its immediate past scurrying it forward toward an immediate post rodent future is an example of semblance. (Brian Massumi Semblance and Event. Activist Philosophy and the Occurrent Arts 2011: 17)What is your Lift? Positivity trying to see, feel, experience the world as a dynamic event. Feeling the arcs of the world and allowing them to lift me up and out of myself. What is your Drag? Negative thoughts, negative people, inability to let things go they become rather like a destructive mouse! They creep up on you. You catch them out of the corner of your eye and they become entangled in your dynamic unfolding into the world. These become the edges Cliff Still was talking about. Like the little ant who cuts herself walking across the edges, these negative thoughts create sharp edges. What is your Thrust? To be better, to be good, to be kind, to always be the best you can possibly be. To keep listening and feeling my way around the Klein-shaped world around me. What Grounds you? Edges! Neil and my boys ground me. My Mum. My friend Mark. My 42 years of living grounds me. My fear of losing the ones I love. My ability to read people and to read the world ground me it is not always a good place. But, you can have hope and that hope gives energy back into the planet. How do you keep afloat or in flight? I can use these words of wisdom from Mahatma Ghandi in order to stay afloat: A man is but a product of his thoughts. What he thinks he becomes. Be the change that you want to see in the world. Strength does not come from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable will. Change yourself – you are in control. See the good in people and help them. Without action, you aren’t going anywhere. Take care of this moment. Be congruent, be authentic, be your true self. Continue to grow and evolve. I fly because I want to and because I can! I am a beautiful ‘me’ butterfly! What propels you forward? My huge heart. My ability to adapt. My ability to change direction and focus on what resources I have within me. The fact that I am loved and I know that I am loved. The fact that I can feel the arcs of the world.

7 is my lucky number. 7 things to transform in order to thrive and FLOURISH: Fight oppressionLearn to attend, accept, appreciate, attend and allow Offer compassionUnderstand in unconventional waysRemember to always loveInstincts are there to be listened to Self multiplicityHumanity ‘is’ worth fighting for To fight the oppression and superficial recognition of: careers, ambition, success I have a choice. I can redefine what success looks like through my own matrix. Try to learn to be calmer with myself and with my boys. I can attend, accept, appreciate, attend, and allow. Through this process I am offering myself my inner self time and compassion through a process of reflection and gathering. (I am normally a very private person when it comes to matters of the heart and soul I let very few people in for fear of being hurt. This stems back to my childhood, and the hurt I felt, which is buried deep inside. I see you Alice, I want you to see me too.) Understand that the things I most hate about myself: my hair, my wobbly stomach, the fact that I’m gullible, the fact that I over-think things, the fact that my 42 year old body can’t do the things I used to do when I was 20… are what make me quirky, unusual, original and exceptional. Remember to take my time. Trust my feelings and trust my judgement in others I place my trust with you Alice, and I’ve got your back too my lovely! Be myself and, if in doubt, smilea nd… Humanity ‘is’ worth fighting for

Attention As I have grown older, I have found myself becoming more and more aware of the delicate nuances of how and why relationships evolve, develop, and then sustain themselves, and how important it is to pay attention to this. I have been lucky enough to have the gift of nurturing two beautiful sons, and, having been nurtured back by them and by my husband in very different ways, I am currently attentive to how complex and wonderfully strange our relationships are with other human beings. Attention for me right now is noticing the small things that pass between us. A quick, kind glance. A smile that appears at an unexpected moment. A little hand that takes hold of mine when I’m not expecting it. A knowing glance to a shared frustration, which arises from a silly argument… Being attentive to the energies and rhythms that lie just underneath the humdrum of the everyday helps me to notice the quality of my feelings for those I love. Acceptance I find myself thinking about how best to accept these little moments of attention? I am trying to consider the small things in life as little gifts, which might otherwise become concealed by the routine of the everyday. These are things to notice and to accept. However, acceptance carries its own set of challenges. To be able to accept these gifts, I have discovered that I have to try and find meaningful ways to gift myself the time and space to do it! This has meant making significant and life-changing decisions. Appreciation In order to understand such energies and the rhythms of our complex relationships, I think it is important to value the magnitude and inherent difficulties of being with others. Paying attention is a portal – it provides a gateway towards being able to accept certain things about each other. Appreciating that relationships are forever changing and being changed by our reactions, and that these energies are both strange and incoherent, is a further step towards transformation. Affection Strangely, affection feels like the least significant for me in the context of the 5 A’s. Is affection a result of appreciating the above A’s perhaps??? I want it, and grave it, but somehow seeking affection is more of a product of ones own insecurity. If I am to follow the notion of noticing the unnoticeable, affection becomes a by-product… AllowingRight now, this feels extremely important. Allowing myself to be… Allowing others to be… Allowing, in all of its guises, feels like a meaningful path towards a deeper transformation on both a personal level and in terms of my relationships more generally.

We all come out from between our mother's legs. From there we first see the light of the world Pipilotti Rist (2011) Crisis FamilyEnergyLowI am, and continue to be, with you Alice. Hanging Hanged Hanging us all togetherStrong and powerfulSuper woman! Super women! I’ve got this!!!!! I’m with you xxx'This Be The Verse’ by Philip LarkinThey fuck you up, your mum and dad. They may not mean to, but they do. They fill you with the faults they hadAnd add some extra, just for you. But they were fucked up in their turnBy fools in old-style hats and coats, Who half the time were soppy-sternAnd half at one another’s throats. Man hands on misery to man. It deepens like a coastal shelf. Get out as early as you can, And don’t have any kids yourself. Mrs Wiggly Winkle’s ghost in the garden

Mothers, Fathers, being a Mother, wanting to be back ‘in’ my Mother, feeling in-between, ‘feeling' as a child and ‘feeling’ now as a Mother myself, feeling with, by, beside, with, beyond. Hey sweet lady, these last two daily tasks have slightly knock me off my feet. I’m sorry they come together. Time has been restricted too. I’m not sure how to separate them. I live away from my family, and see them collectively only a few times a year. They all live in Suffolk (and surrounding areas). I am the only one who lives away. In the last two weeks, both my Mum and Dad have been here to visit me, on their own, without their respective spouses or my siblings. My parents divorced when I was 9, it was not a good time, for anyone. I miss them both terribly. I have missed them both terribly since I was 9. I still miss them terribly. I miss that they have not been together for the past 34 years, and yet I am thankful that they are not still together. I also feel blessed to have had my step-father Peter in my life for the past 34 years. How can love be divided yet so strong? Last Thursday my Mum came to stay we went shopping and we laughed like two teenage girls. I looked at her skin, her eyes. She is utterly beautiful. I wanted to scoop her up, bottle her and keep her with me forever. She is ‘the’ most powerful, strong, determined, loving woman I know. I think of her late Mother she was not a maternal mother. My Mother was carried, but I sense that she wasn't carried as I was does this seep through into the foetus? Do we know we are loved before we are born? It was clear that my Grandmother was lonely, my Grandad wanted kids. It was 1950 my Mother became the first of 4 children. My Grandmother worked in a bank. Pictures of her depict her as a very glamorous, handsome woman. My Grandad was working class. He looked after her and their 4 children. My Grandad was fierce as a father. I sense that my Grandmother did not nurture my Mother as my Mother nurtured me when I was a foetus. They have left a mark on my Mum. It’s not outwardly visible, but is seeps through her eyes and skin if ever she talks about them. This has also made my Mum into a fighter my Mum ‘is’ a fighter. My Mum is also fierce. She had to be. Women have to be fierce. Yesterday, I spent the day with my Dad. We went to Nottingham Arena to see Professor Brian Cox give a lecture on space and time. He discussed Einstein’s theory of relativity, he talked about quantum physics. I held my Dad’s arm, we ate nachos and chilli and laughed, we talked about the meaning of life, the magnitude of the known universe, politics and evolution. We stayed up until midnight. He is the most caring, soft, intelligent, loving man I know. I was within both of these individuals I materialised as an astonishing combination of his sperm and her egg. I was, am, in-between, yet part, and an extension of, these two individuals. Perhaps there is no such thing as an ‘individual’. We never, have never, will never, be on our own because we are the matter and substance of a lineage of cells, which are made up from a lineage of humans, which are part of a lineage of matter from the universe? And yet, this lineage is treated so differently in different parts of the world. How can that be possible when we all start out the same way? At what point in the lineage of time did women become dominated by men? I am struck by the documentary you shared. Perhaps my Grandmother would not have survived in Senegal? I am lucky to be a woman living in the west. I feel small right now I feel like metaphorically crawling back into my Mother’s womb. My Mother can’t imagine this My Grandmother’s cells are not of actual matter anymore. My Mother’s Mother is but a thought, an old life represented in the skin of another. Does that make me another representation of my Grandmother? Is that why I can see her seeping through my Mum’s eyes and skin? Does this make its mark on me. What mark does that leave on my off-spring? Do women seep through time together. I find the inequality of the women in the documentary you shared difficult. I have also been thinking about you, about your project, about the gifts you have offered us as participants. Gifts of attention, acceptance, appreciation, affection and allowing. Today I am feeling quiet. Today I am feeling a bit different about this process. The above image is for you. I stole it from the internet but I gift it to you as a sign of my solidarity with you, and as an image of how I feel connected to you and the world right now. I also wanted to offer the following from Elizabeth Grosz’s 'Volatile Bodies. Towards a corporeal feminism’ 1994, pp15: The female body limits women’s capacity for equality and transcendence; it is a hindrance to be overcome, an obstacle to be surmounted if equality is to be attained. Many feminists within this category see a conflict between the role of mother and that of political or civic being.

Things that are a definite yes for me: Through a love of all that is natural and a certain purity of spirit that keeps Virgos self-sufficient and self-contained, at least on the surface. Solar Virgos have a strong sense of responsibility. Even when they've convinced themselves to be irresponsibleabout something or the other, they worry about it. when Solar Virgos are not involved in some kind of project, there is generally a vague feeling of discontent. The fear of under-performing is often strong. Virgos want to do things well. There's an odd combination of the intellectual and the practical in Virgo that is sometimes mistaken for coolnessYou are a humanitarian who aims to treat everyone as equals. You seek to be unique and original, and you do your best to avoid bias and prejudice. Social status is less important to you than belonging to a group of diverse personalities. Your identity, in fact, is somehow linked to a larger unit than yourself. The friendships you establish are crucial to your development. You can lack focus and be indecisive as a result. You tend to go through periods of intense highs when you are excessively optimistic. These periods are so marked that they seem to be unnatural and a fall seems to be inevitable. You are naturally trustworthy, and you don't have much patience for those who don't show respect for others, who take foolish risks, and who lead disorganized lives. Some pay too much attention to what everyone else is doing, and lose touch with what they really want to do. You are a philosophical sort, interested and curious about the world, other people, and perhaps different cultures. You can be extremely restless and discontented if you don't have a definite goal in mind. Trying to avoid the attitude that the grass is greener on the other side will be important, while attending to your needs to get away from time to time will help scratch the seemingly incurable itch for something more. She lacks firmness, and can be a sucker for a sob story! She likes to live in a dream, in the world of imagination, and can hope so much that reality checks can be brutal. She likes travelling, movement, change. She likes contact and is open to other people. Mental affinity in her relationships is paramount. She is good at compromising and always tries to put herself in others' shoes. Some mental laziness. You are not very quick to speak or communicate, especially in childhood, as you need to develop trust in your own abilities to express yourself. You make an excellent confidante--you are very discreet and secrets go into the vault. You prefer not to focus on facts and learn best when ideas are presented visually, emotionally, or imaginatively. She likes to discuss, likes polemic. She has good judgment and is determined. She is a worker and has lots of energy. She has a lively intelligence and goes to the heart of things. She is enthusiastic, incisive, and energetic in thought and speech. She has a great sense of observation and quickly grasps the situation. Their appeal lies in their dedication, their willingness to work on the relationship, and to make the relationship work in real terms. You tend to focus on a person's unique qualities -- those traits that make him or her stand out -- as the most attractive. They are quite sensitive in love -- even insecure -- and this reserved, loner-like quality is part of their appeal. They prefer to play it safe in their relationships, and they need to be confident that you like them before they make a move. They aim to please, and are easily intimidated by your experiences. She is very devoted, does not show emotions: she and doesn't always let herself go, either through fear of ridicule or through fear of not being loved in return as much as she loves. She is therefore sometimes too undemonstrative. May give off the sensethat her love is not for free. Caring but worries that she is not exciting enough. Carefulwith money. She might lack self-confidence and her ideals are not easy to achieve. Feelings of being used or deceived may come up. In an attempt to love unconditionally, you may too readily sacrifice your own needs and eventually feel used. Mars represents the desire for action and physical energy. These productive and busy people are goal-oriented, practical people. Although theycan be a little scattered at times, simply because they are doing so many things at anygive time, Mars in Virgo natives get things done--quite well! They have a knack forhandling a wide variety of tasks at once, and a tendency to take on perhaps too muchat the same time. Most Mars in Virgo natives are not particularly aggressive by nature. Although they can be a little hard-nosed and critical at times, they rarely resort topushing others around. Still, an annoyed Mars in Virgo native can be difficult to bearound! Arouse their anger and they turn into complaining, over-critical nags. Mars in Virgo people are quite protective about their system for getting things done. Although rather humble in a general life sense, they can be quite particular about theirmethods--how they organize and accomplish their goals, mostly with work. Although they have some staying power, they can be restless and arenot given to sticking with the same projects for too long. These natives derive plenty of energy and life force from the things they do--their work, hobbies, and any kind ofprojects they take on. There is a perfectionist at the heart of all people with this position. They worry when they are not producing anything, and they worry about whether what they've produced will measure up.

So, I realise that my little family and I live quite a contained family existence. Thinking about who I might invite for soup, has been particularly revealing. We live away from our families and rarely do we transgress from being a family unit, or from being with each other undertaking family life, or just ‘being’ in our home. My two boys have play dates and have the odd sleepover (once they were invited at the same time whoop whoop, which meant Neil and I actually went out, shock horror). Other than that we move, live, work, eat, breathe, cohabit as a little unit of 4. Therefore, when I began thinking about someone to invite for soup, I was a little scuppered as to whom I could ‘actually’ perform this act with in practical terms, besides my little family unit. My thoughts then turned to a family Kelly tea, where we would play games together and eat our favourite food (a good ol’ fashioned roast) and I would create some 'telling cards’, which asked questions like: What is the most amazing thing about Daddy, Mummy, Jack, Sam (D, M, J, S)? If you could ask D, M, J, S to do one thing differently what would it be? What do you most like about yourself? What is your best skill and your worst trait? etc. Tell us why you are epic? Tell us why D, M, J, S is epic? etcetera. I am going to do this! But, on reflecting a little more, I found myself wishing that I could sit down with one person in particular. I would love to ask this person some questions. Some questions that remain unanswered there are some things I wish I could tell her. Things I wished I had said things I wished, even should have noticed. This one person is sadly no longer with us physically, although her genealogy lives on in me and in my eldest son, for sure. And that is my late ‘Naughty Nanny’. So called ‘naughty’ because when we were little, and Mum and Dad would say no to sweets or naughty treats and things, little Eileen Francksen couldn’t resist spoiling and utterly loving her grandchildren. She would buy us sweeties, she would say oh here you are darling, with a smile and a wink that looked like an angel and a naughty nymph all at once. This woman’s love, should she be alive today, I believe could quite literally heal the world! She was utterly selfless and generous beyond compare. So, I am going to imagine a lunch-time dinner date with my late, great, Naughty Nanny: This is what we would do: Together we would make sandwiches using soft white bread, real butter and raspberry jam. The crusts would be cut off and they would be cut lovingly into triangles. Her soft, dulcet tones, with a gentle Essex twang, would fill the air as we would chat about what we’d been up to. She would call me Kweggie and I would every now again hug her and she would hug me back. I remember how she smelt a soft floral, almost talcum-powder type smell, which was subtle and kind. It followed her as she softly and slowly moved around. We would have numerous cups of tea, made with real tea-leaves from a pot, which had been pre-warmed. Nanny would then carefully place a tea-cosy over the pot to keep it warm. We would go into the lounge and drink tea, and after we had eaten our sandwiches, we would then munch our way through an array of biscuits, mostly of the digestive variety, which we would dunk into our tea. I would look out of the back window, towards her little garden, which at the time was situated in Woodford Green, Essex. I could see the little pond with fishes in, which was surrounded by the most beautiful smelling rose bushes. Beyond that was a secret gate that went out the field behind her house. I never really noticed the motorway, which drummed a little way away in the distance. I just remember the smell of the roses and the gate post that my Grandad (who sadly died from a heart attack when he was in his 60’s) had purposefully dislodged so that all the Grandchildren could escape into the playing field beyond. I always felt utterly safe, utterly loved and utterly protected from everything and everyone when I was at their house. After we’d eaten sandwiches and drunk tea, we would then put on the telly (snooker was her favourite) and we would keep chatting and I would listen to her voice and smile at her as we would joke and talk about all sorts of things… Regrets: She would have given you the world, if she could. She would have given you the clothes she walked in, had you asked her. She would have done anything, anything for me I truly believed this (and I still do today). She was a truly giving and wonderful lady. Unfortunately, this often got her into trouble. Nanny died when she was in her early 70’s. She found a lump but didn’t want to worry anyone. She lived with it until it was weeping and progressive. I remember cuddling her once, and her pulling away in pain. She had kept it hidden for over a year. She didn’t want to worry anyone. She didn’t want to cause a fuss. When she finally went into hospital it was too far gone. It was an open, infected wound. The cancer was eating her from the inside out and there was nothing anyone could do. She didn’t want to worry anyone. She didn’t want to cause a fuss. She thought it would go away. She kept it hidden from everyone. When she finally accepted that she was ill, it had grown and grown and there was nothing anyone could do. Nanny died from breast cancer. They could have helped her, her prognosis could have been good. She could have met all of her Great-Grandchildren. She could have met my youngest son. But, she said I didn’t want worry any one Kweggie. You were getting married and I didn’t want to get in the way of your wonderful day. FUCK! WHY DIDN’T YOU TELL ME? WHY DIDN’T YOU TELL SOMEONE? We could have hugged so many more times, we could have had triangular shaped sandwiches until we felt sick, we could have drunk tea until the sun went down, we could have hugged and I could have held your soft, soft hands again and again and again… But, you didn’t want bother anyone. Naughty Nanny was ‘the’ most loving person I have ever met, but she was too kind, she was too giving, she was too ready to give up her own needs for the needs of others. There are consequences to every action, even those that come from the best places, and from the best people. If I could have her back for just a moment, I would ask her why? Why couldn’t she tell anyone? Why did she place so little value on her own life? Why did she not fight to stay alive? I lost a woman who represented stability, security, and who made me feel like I would always be loved. She was my loving rock through Mum and Dad’s divorce. She knew that my Step-Mother hated me. In her own, soft way she tried to protect me when ever she could. She saw through her too she knew. If I could sit with her in her front room, just once more, I would tell her that I loved her with all my heart and that I missed her. That I missed how she smelt. That I missed her kindness, her cheeky, funny witty sense of humour, that I missed how I felt so utterly safe and loved when I was with her. That I missed her so terribly that it makes my heart ache. She would promise you the world, but she couldn’t promise to look after herself. I regret that she couldn’t love herself enough to realise her own worth. Nanny I miss you and I always will.

I make a circle in the corn. I pick up my feet and I push the heads of corn down on to the earth. I stamp my feet and bring my knees up high. The circle is small, but just wide enough for me to sit down. There are scratches on my legs. There is now dirt and bits of corn in my sandals. I sit down and look up at the sky. I hear my sister calling me. I stay sitting down. I keep looking at the sky It is blue. It looks curved. My Mother left my father that day. I just wanted to keep looking into the blue sky and pretend everything would stay the same. Nothing ever stays the same. This is my ra-ra skirt. This is the skirt I remembered wearing. My Mum sent me this picture. I have lost 34 years since this picture was taken. The corn I felt on that day, when I was 8 years old, would have ultimately been harvested, milled, and made into somebody’s breakfast cereal. Memories are funny things. I can still smell the air, the dry earth and the woody corn. I can remember stomping my feet and sitting down amongst the corn so vividly. I can easily slip back into that time. If I close my eyes and breathe, and wait… I can transport myself back 34 years and still feel the earth on my body and the corn on hands. I loved that ra-ra skirt. I felt fabulous. I wonder if the corn I sat on that day tasted differently when it was milled? Did I stop its growth? Would their little squashed heads have been discarded because they didn’t met the manufacturers quality assurance? Did I stop them from being milled? I like to think that those little heads of corn escaped and were thrown away and used for cattle food. That way they will have gone back to the earth.

Blakley says, Women outnumber men in their use of social media… they truly dominate social space. Will our social media landscape become a feminist landscape? I don’t think so.. I think women are going to be responsible, ironically enough, for driving a stake through the heart of cheesy categories… like the chick flick. This isn’t the most inspiring TED talk, but what fascinates me about it is the notion of data, and how this seems to be driving an epidemic of fake news, of fake stories, of our fake selves. Data, not just as statistics necessarily to run different algorithms for advertising, but data about us, what we like, what we don’t like, and how this is used to profile and drive the media. Data in this context is at once skewed because it is not representative of our whole selves. If women make up the majority of users, does this somehow suggest that we are more susceptible to being fake? Are women more likely to portray themselves as something that they are not? I’m not so sure. That feels to me like another demographic; another form of stereotyping. We are far too quick to place each other, to read the world, or to try and understand things via categorisation. Politics is sick with categorisation. It is sick with trying to fix things for a world that is divided by gender, race, religion, what we like and don’t like… My view of social media is that, even though we aren’t being profiled because of our demographic any more, as Johanna recognises, it is still dangerous to assume that our social consumption can give a true reflection of who we are. It seems to me that how we depict ourselves on social media is warped by a need to fit in, to be part of a community, which ironically drives us to post our ‘fake’ selves somehow. Surely, this goes against its overriding intentions to connect? Trump is nothing but fake peddling fake news, and yet the residents of the most powerful Country in the world has put heir faith in him (well just under half of them in actual fact)! My gut reaction is that our mediated selves are somewhat detached and removed within a social media context. Yet, I find intimacy and connectedness through a number of relationships I have that are, due to geography, mostly digital in nature. I also find myself intimately connected when my experience of another becomes enhanced or enlivened through a mediated encounter. For me, these are different sides of the same coin. However, I would say that for the most part, all of my meaningful relationships have been nurtured through ‘touch’. Quite literally being touched and feeling touched by people. I would say that my feelings of connectedness and belonging comes directly from being face-to-face with another human being. This can be extended and developed through technology, but my feelings of being in relation to another human comes from spending time with them; first and foremost in, so called, physical space. I notice that I always feel slightly lesser somehow when I have been on social media. I feel like I’m not quite achieving what I should be. I see what brilliant things other people are doing and I feel like a failure. I ALWAYS feel a bit rubbish or not quite myself when I’ve been on social media. I try to limit this. Social media makes me feel like a failure. I also agree with participant 20 that We are so distracted all the time that we are not truly present with others or even ourselves much of the time. However, social media is a fantastic place to share and engage in political discourses. I am more interested in these posts than the posts describing peoples everyday lives. My use of social media has changed since Trump and the EU referendum. _I have decided that I am a private person. I only wish to share things with people I trust, and would like to get know more intimately. I feel like you are one of these people Alice. You have given me a portal into which I can pour bits of myself, whilst still feeling safe enough to do so. This process makes me feel connected. Thank you for that Alice. I hope you are ok? I wonder how you are holding up with all of this info? Sending you a hug 'right now’ xxx 17/5/17 7: 30 pm I just had to add the following: This is what I found myself screaming to my youngest son about an hour ago in response to him repeatedly ignoring me when asked to come off of his device, and then treating me like I am some enemy who’s asked him to commit the most heinous activity ever, just because his time is up ggggggrrrrrrrrrrrr : -(Oh my God, I hate this. It’s like I lose you and you disappear into this void, your face gets lost in this screen and I can’t reach you anymore. You can’t hear me, it’s like I’m invisible to you. And then you come out all aggressive, and miserable, and you make me the enemy it’s all my fault because I’m the one who has asked you to stop playing! AAAAAGGGGHHHHH I can’t stand it when you look at me like that. It’s horrible. It’s horrible for you and it’s certainly not nice for me either. Why do you make me shout at you like this!!!!! I’m not proud of my reaction surely I’m the adult and I should be teaching my son how to deal with social media. But, at the end of a very busy day, when I just want some adult time, this is what happens!!!! I definitely have a love hate relationship with my technological world and that of my two sons. There seems to be a massive gulf between us when technology comes in to the picture.

Transformational encounters Before Traction Aha ‘Moment’ What next? Choice points, insight into action, transit, transformation… My parents are foreverBeing excited about being allowed to sleep in the big double bed because Mummy was sleeping at another house. I was 8 years old. Realising that Mummy and Daddy now lived in separate houses. Growing up in a moment – I realised that everything can change in a flash. A Mother’s love is enduringHaving ear-ache as a child and feeling the pain ripping through my body and calling for my Mum. She came! She would always come, she would always be there, she would always find a way to comfort me. I am strong Cycling my heart out to school through the howling wind and rain on an old knackered bike that weighed 3 times as much as me. When you think your body can do no more, if you keep fighting, you can make it. I have no choice but to keep going. No one can help me but myself. I am not wantedReaching for my Step-Mother’s throat and pushing here towards the wall and screaming at her that she will never speak about my Mother, or me and my siblings in that way ever again. I am 13 years old. I am not to blame. She no longer has any power over me. I can take action against adults that are manipulative and hurt me. I am safe Getting lost as a child in a busy amusement park. I am vulnerable Love is different to sex Cheating on my boyfriend when I was a teenager because I wanted to discover my sexuality. That sex can feel dirty and unfulfilling. I also realised how much I felt for my boyfriend at the time and how utterly terrible my actions made him and me feel. That was the first, and the last time, I ever hurt anyone in that way. We are responsible for others hurting people feels utterly hideous. We all have the potential to feel power, love, hatred, pain, pleasure we need to look after each other. I am independent and in control of my life Being dumped by my boyfriend on my graduation day in 1996, and then pleading with him not to leave me whilst on my bended knees. I am not in control. I will love, but I will love on my own terms from a position of equality and respect. I am safe Being involved in a car crash and watching the event unfold in slow motion. Life is fragile and precious Attention, acceptance, appreciation, affection, allowing Love can endure anything Finding out that my friend’s parents had been shot dead by her Mother’s lover. Humans are destructive. Love can be devastating. Being successful Achieving the award, and being presented in assembly, with the title of ‘Games Captain’ at my middle school for the 3rd year running. Adulation and success is a drug. Bully’s are powerful Confronting a girl at school who had threatened to beat me up. I confronted her by offering her my friendship – I was extremely kind and generous to her. People are full of shit. They are always hiding from something. Try to look behind what’s on the surface. Doing the right thingSigning on whilst I was working a cash job in a sandwich shop in Leicester just so I could find enough money to pay my rent and live. Doing the wrong thing to survive. Falling in love again Meeting my husband Neil I can be loved as an equal. I can love as an equal. I am important The birth of my two boys. The gravitas of parenthood. They are important. Falling utterly and deeply in love, in a new and wonderous way. I now understand my Parents’ love for me. My career is important Being torn between my career and my boys. Feeling guilty again- about dropping my kids to yet another out-of-school activity just so I can work. A career can be destructive. My family is important. I am important. I shouldn’t have to feel guilty all of the time. I have a choice. Fight or flight response Rushing to pull a young girl from the water who had fallen into a canal, while by-standers just stood and stared. No body helped – I pulled her from the water myself, with no help from anyone! I act instinctively. People either fight or they become paralyzed by fear. I am a fighter – just like my Mother. Craving success Being annihilated in my PhD Viva by a powerful woman and not fighting back. Feeling weak and mentally abused (as I did as a child at the hands of my Step-Mother). Everything I thought I was working for has been a lie. Be careful which ‘games’ you play, and be careful what you wish for. Gravity shift Get out of the falseness of the academy.

I am around 8 years old, the exact time is not clear, but I am young, and living with my Mum and my Dad in Orchard Close in Suffolk. The air is warm, and I am wearing a ra-ra skirt, a blouse and my favourite white sandals. My sandals have patterns all over them they look as if they have been made out of snow-flakes. They are full of holes. I am facing away from the house, towards the corn fields out the back. I can see a tree with an old battered wooden swing underneath it. Through the tree, and beyond the swing, I can see the yellow corn. It sways gently in the breeze. I am gently running… I am running into the corn. The earth is rough and uneven. It is difficult to run. But I can run. I am only 8 years old. The corn’s stems are hard and strong. They are anchored into the ground. They jut up out of the hard, dry earth. They try not to move as I swish past them. I hold my hands out to the side of my body, and let my hands trace across the tips of the corn. Their tips look like little heads, with hairy faces. They have spiky edges, but they feel soft on my hands. My sandals aren’t very white anymore. There are bits in-between my toes. I keep moving through the corn. I look back at the pathways I have made in the corn. I stop to look back at where I have just been. I can see a faint track where I have disrupted the corn. Some stems are slightly bent and look as if they are curved over like little old people. I make a circle in the corn. I pick up my feet and I push the heads of corn down on to the earth. I stamp my feet and bring my knees up high. The circle is small, but just wide enough for me to sit down. There are scratches on my legs. There is now dirt and bits of corn in my sandals. I sit down and look up at the sky. I hear my sister calling me. I stay sitting down. I keep looking at the sky It is blue. It looks curved. My Mother left my father that day. I just wanted to keep looking into the blue sky and pretend everything would stay the same.

My essentials are essentially blue. Blue is my favourite colour blue is the sky, the sea, her eyes, the dark. The dress in my suitcase however is red this represents the other parts of me the parts that hide and giggle away when know one is watching. My chosen book, which is one of my favourite books (Tess of the D’Urbervilles) is also covered in red. and so are my toe nails it is important for them to be painted. I also need my boys with me 'my' boys all 3 of them. Hair products oh yes, yes, yes, hair products these are very important. And clean teeth and pants. The one famous person I would love to share some time with is Arundhati Roy. Desert Island Discs Arundhati Roy Need to read this too!!! This is what I have learnt through this process, through my meeting in this space with you Alice, through this wonderful dance across our lives… Woman who lives in the country of her own skin. She has no visas. Women are in charge of their own skins, there are no boundaries that can divide you from your own sense of self. Archive of discoveries. This process is an archive of discovery. Map of a universe. Maps of the complex roads and rivers that connect us all. Matter, time, space, being being human. Politics between things the connections. Connecting, sharing, offering. Just documenting the atrocities doesn't tell you the stories. Stories that have been hidden have been revealed. Only the truth can be fiction, a type of psychosis, these are the truths floating in the air. Truths, lies, politics, Trump, need to rebuild human connections. Hope is floating in the air. Meta-art a tapestry of broken garments, fragments, stories hearts… Living in a nexus of broken dreams, fragments of a memory, stories that have come from the heart. Echoes of things that have some traction in my head… I draft in my head a lot… Echoes of things, traction in my head… I drift in my head a lot… Not linier but add ons… it's circulating in on itself circular so not much lost universes within universes but complete in themselves, kali storytelling dance… Folding and returning, the eternal return, continuously learning, forever feeling and living. When things start closing down I start opening up to create a little piece of space (art) You have created a little piece of space (art) in which I can feel save and flourish! Pray song universe that you try and construct- My universe is in my suitcase. Majorities v minorities- Politics of touch. Artist and a visionary- Alice and Kerry. Vocal rage against women who are perceived to not be towing the party line… Intimidate mutilate particularly women… right wing trolls Fight!

They hold each other and stand for a moment longer, long enough to feel the raindrops patting their backs. Long enough to notice that they balance at the edge of parapet – a parapet that can never be re-built once they commit to falling into that ‘strange sound world’. Going at it like dogs, their tongues thrust into each other’s mouths, drops of sweet evaporated milk seep between them. Skinny and boney, her lips are painted in red. He is wearing dark glasses. A distant tune faintly hums from a tape deck. A stray dog howls. Hardly a day passes when they haven’t thought of each other. They stand and hold each other for a moment longer. They are so drawn to each other it makes them feel sick. Don’t judge it, listen – just give me a hug, please! And the blank space that follows is not yet death. Il Buio e il Miele. Giovanni Arpino's (1969) Scent of a woman (1992)

I never touch multi-storey car park doors or buttons on lifts. I use my elbow, or my foot if nobody is watching! I like to touch my boys’ hair. I am completely in touch with the fact that I am a woman and a Mum. I have felt touched by looking out of my bedroom window at night, on my wedding anniversary, to see a heart Neil had created out of solar lights for me in our garden. I wish I had touched my Naughty Nanny one last time before she died. I like being touched on my left nipple. IMG_7624. jpg. zipI swear I never touched drugs. I left a mark on the grass where we had just made love. I am touched every time my sons tell me they love me. I like to touch base by walking outside and touching the world in any way that I can: with my eyes, with my feet, with my hands, with my body, with my soul, with my breath… I like to touch base with my dear friend Mark. The past touches me like an old friend, and old adversary and an ally. How much am I in touch with me? Kerry's hands 4 Alice

Thinking about being female thinking about being male. On your lovely suggestion of wrapping ourselves up in our clothes, I decided to take a picture of my wardrobe in the gorgeous Saturday sunlight that little corner of our bedroom is my girlie space. I notice that my wardrobe is placed right next to the window. I can see our garden from my window. I like to look out as I get dressed in the morning. I also think about how Neil’s clothes are downstairs in the spare room because there isn’t room in our room. All of my clothes are in our bedroom. I am a nester I like to have my things close by. I’d not thought about that before. I also notice that, as I open the wardrobe, I can smell myself. I like to smell nice it makes me feel feminine. It makes me feel in control. That reminds me of one of my early years teachers when I was 6 or so, called Mrs. Wiggly (who a great name). She ALWAYS smelt amazing!!!!! I absolutely loved her she was quite scary and strict, but she was strong, fair and intelligent. She smelt feminine and powerful… Jeez, maybe that’s it? Mrs. Wiggly showed me that smelling good as a woman placed you in a position of strength and knowledge! I LOVE that thought!!!!! I wear two different perfumes. I have worn one of these perfumes for a long time, since we got married in 2003 in fact. Thought: Mrs. Wiggly unlocked my ‘smelling intelligence’, which enabled me to consider myself as an intelligent, strong woman. I like the idea that a 'smelling intelligence' has continued with me throughout my 42 years. I wonder if I smell differently now, in 2017, than I did in 2003 when I first bought my perfume? Has having children changed the balance of my pheromones? That makes me think about my wedding day. I felt extremely feminine on that day. I never wanted to be a princess bride like my Sis. In fact, I was always the ‘tom-boy’ of our family. My Mum always kept my hair short. She said it would never grow when I asked her when I was an adult. I always wanted long, thick hair. My hair is not one of my most favourite attributes. I lose my hair when I am stressed. That makes me feel utterly horrible and unfeminine. My Sister, Kat is extremely glamorous and feminine and has beautiful long dark hair. I wouldn't say I was feminine. I remember a lad once saying to me You’re kind of in-between. You’re not really attractive like a girl, but you’re pretty cool like a boy. I was in the school football team when I was 9. I was very good at most sports. I liked playing with boys (in more ways than one; -). Many of my friends growing up were boys. I wasn’t ‘one’ of the lads by any stretch. They still treated me as a girl. Although, I think my ‘sporty’ status gave me a special pass into their world. They accepted me in many ways, in ways that my girlfriends didn’t. I always liked that. That changed a little when hormones kicked in, but I still enjoyed playing with the boys. I find Trump’s and May’s inabilities to consider the complexity and diversity of human nature extremely frightening. Trump’s misogynistic views of women are catastrophic for our times. I am frightened by our current times. Where are the Mrs. Wiggly’s when you need them!!!!!!! Man she’d take him down in one fell swoop!

Motherhood is a continuous cycle. It never stops. It continually changes and transforms you. You must be strong. My Mum is strong, yet she carries so much that many wouldn’t see. She wouldn’t allow them to see. I see her. I hear her. I heard her. I listened. With my ears, but also with my heart. I recognise how much she still carries. She carried us (me, my sister, my brother the two daughters who died at birth) in her womb, yet she is still metaphorically carrying us now. Carrying our hearts, carrying our burdens, carrying our loses, carrying our regrets. Carrying the pain in my sister’s life. Still searching for ways to help. Carrying on regardless. Carrying all of our ups and downs with her every day. Living and breathing them with us. Always being there always being strong. What else to do? We love our children unconditionally. She will always keep fighting. She will always keep sharing in our joys, our successes, our struggles, our achievements. Motherhood is a cycle of joy, angst, delight, unknowing. Motherhood is transformation in process. Motherhood is process.