What layers have you have shed…? Not really sure to honest self consciousness maybe? (What were you fed as a child? (Touch)? What did you learn as a teenager. (Traction)? To take chances. Not too drink Gin. What remains in your muscle memory, that you silently rehearse? To happy when not, to be reserved when feel I want to shout out or laugh. What happens when you become ‘transparent’ a state that is not caterpillar nor either yet butterfly what rests in these places of ‘becoming?’ self confidence but with a strange element of fear, worry, strength, self awareness. What is in this your ‘secret dwelling place’ now? Right now there is worry but with an odd optimism which erupts into absolute panic but then dissipates for a short while. My secret dwelling place is strained as I feel in limbo not sure of what is happening for my future.

Areas for me to Transform: 1… Stop stressing and worrying about everything. 2… Be happy in your own skin. 3… Stop feeling so lonely, learn to love your own company. 4… Look forward not back but not too far forward live for today. 5… Don't let your illness define and control you. 6… Be proud of your creative abilities. 7… Don't be jealous.

Warm, suspended, close, heart beats, muffled voices, touch, safety, attachment, glow, peace. My relationship links :)

My hand only one as couldn't take both at the same time! Day 22. Day 8. Response. Day 5: Response. Day 2. Response. How do you nest? What is your experience of nesting? What nests have you built, destroyed, abandoned, redesigned? Soup. Imagine, remember, explore and make present this affective place of feeling… 1. Attention 2. Acceptance 3. Appreciation 4. Affection 5. Allowing Day 3. Response. I never touch… I like to touch… I am completely in touch with… I have felt touched by… I wish I had touched… I like being touched on… I swear I never touched… I left a mark on… I am touched every time… I like to touch base by… I like

Watching and especially listening to your video made me think how powerful the human voice is and how effective it can be. A few years ago I heard on the radio a letter read from a soldier by his bereaved mother. It was so powerful, so moving. The human voice and the individual story are so important and I felt this encountering your piece.

I never touch… spiders as I'm terrified of them! I like to touch… soft furry things like cushions, fake fur. I am completely in touch with… my own feelings but I overthink too much. I have felt touched by… people's genuine kindness through the difficulties I have encountered. I wish I had touched… a tarantula on holiday then perhaps I would not be so scared of all the spiders in my home! I like being touched on… the face, especially when held before a passionate kiss. I swear I never touched… illegal drugsI left a mark on… the wall when I lost my temper once and threw a cup (empty luckily!) I am touched every time… someone is kind to me. I like to touch base by… calling/texting and meeting for coffee/lunch. I like to touch base with… my friends and family, but especially my daughter. The past touches me like… in waves of unexpected memories, both sad and happy.

BeforeTractionAha ‘Moment’ What next? Choice points, insight into action, transit, transformation… I didn't know people diedWhen I was five a boy down the road from me was knocked over and killedLife ends and to be careful crossing the roadMake the most of everyday Kindness comes from surprising placesPost natal depression was terrible. It was my daughter's christening. I had organised a get together for family but struggle to get everything sorted. A lady, who I didn't know, took over and was wonderful. This was to be the start of Liz being one of my best friends and realising that some people are just wonderful. You don't need to know someone to be kind. Go out even if its rainingMy dad would never go out if it looked like it was going to rain, even if there was only one cloud in the sky. When my mum passed her driving test she took myself and my younger brother when we were quite young to Hatfield House. Despite the torrential rain and my mum getting lost, we had the most wonderful day. Something that will stay with me forever. Never let rain stop you from going anywhere. You don't need perfect weather to have a fantastic time! Don't be put off easily

It was my birthday. I was twelve. I always loved sound and music. I came home to find a surprise in the living room. There it was on a small table in the centre of the room. A turntable with integrated tape deck. I was overwhelmed. It was everything I ever wanted. I couldn't believe it. Smoky lid revealing the turnable. Fake wood surround. I couldn't believe it. This was my first foray into audio, something I loved that would stay with me forever.

I'm not sure what to put exactly. I was thinking about beside and what it means to me. Someone close. It actually makes me think of the reverse, loneliness.

Thank you Alice for doing this it is very interesting! What seems to align? I found that each section had elements that seemed to align especially: Sun in Scorpio Scorpios are known for their intensityTo others, Scorpios seem to have plenty of willpowerThis apparent patience is simply their powerful skills at strategy at workThe darker side of life intrigues them, and they're always ready to investigateYou are naturally competitiveWhat seems untrue? Her relationship with her mother may have been difficult, she has may have had considerable family problems . As far as studying or learning goes, you are better off reading the material than listening to a teacher. you seem to be in love with life. She is very devoted, does not show emotions: she and doesn't always let herself goWhat insights/resistances offer traction? Scorpios simply never give up. They have tremendous staying power. They're not in the slightest intimidated by anybody or anythingTrauma seems to follow them wherever they goShe is suspicious, defiant, extremistYou may not always listen as well as you speak, however! You might be too busy thinking about what to say next. Your opinions are usually strong and you are an independent thinker. You tend to be proud of your opinions and thoughts, and might easily get a bruised ego if you are not heard, if your opinions are pushed aside or ignored, or if your opinions are criticised. You know how to be fair, and you expect others to be fairGives too much weight to the views of others and to public opinionAny more ‘aha’ moments in image, word, thought, sense, action, colour, sound, hue? Without someone to share their lives with, they feel utterly incomplete. SO SAD, BLUEThey must work hard at positive thinking and expecting more from life. UP HILL STRUGGLE, BLUE. There's a vicious circle going on here that can only be broken when the patterns created by negative conditioning are broken. BLACK CATASTROPHIC WORRYWhat intimacy, ‘in-to-me-i-see’ to you see when your 'sky and earth’, or your 'you and I' collide? Both the good and negative aspects of my being, both with its strengths and weaknesses.

Your prompt. I shared my feelings with someone who I thought was a close friend. Their response. Negative, negative, negative. Raised voices, shouting. Your Noticing Firstly I was shocked, then totally upset. action I left things for a while then called not to say sorry (I wasn't in the wrong) but to say that I heard what she said and that it was fine and asked if we were still friends. reflection Maybe there is something wrong in her life. I know I'm not perfect, far from it, but did I deserve all that vitriol? immersion Not suredetachment Yes. I can forgive, but I never ever forget. I can be polite but will never let her into my feelings again. emotion Very sad, very very sad. analysis The barriers have gone up again.

After watching and listening to the links posted I went for a walk. Kate Bush's Wuthering Heights was quite overwhelming for me. When I was nine (my birthday is the 31st October) I was knocked over in the road, not by a car but a young lad running down the road who somehow pushed me over into the road, in my home town of Dunstable. My nose was cut with blood pouring everywhere with grit stuck in the wounds. Oddly I was more worried about getting the stick red blood on my beloved poncho (orange and purple) that I used to wear. My mum, Pauline and dad, Freddie took me to the hospital where I had my face sewn up and later sent home. To cheer me up my mum knew that I absolutely loved Wuthering Heights by Kate Bush and so she bought me The Kick Inside, an album that I absolutely treasured. I still have the scars. P. S. Happy birthday Alice!

Since beginning this process it has made me look further into myself, which is positive, although sometimes a little uncomfortable, but generally a good thing. I think being open and honest has allowed me to express things in a way I had not done before. I feel that I have definitely began the process of transforming my own life purpose by looking at my life in a different way, through the prompts given and the noticings received. Thank you Alice for this opportunity and I look forward to the next phase. Cathie x

Who will you invite and how will you invite them? My daughter, my automatic dining companion as she lives at home! What ingredients will you choose? Chicken, peppers, tomatoes, onions, sour cream, chives. Where will you buy them from? Tesco. How will you prepare them? I'm not the world's greatest cook, but mainly be chopping and frying (with my daughter there as my memory is awful and I may leave it and forget about it!). What do you want to gift to your guest? Something tasty hopefully :) Where will you eat? Not a very glamorous location, probably in front of the telly! What will you wear? Relaxing clothes to chill out in. What would you like to receive? I hope that my daughter says that she likes the food. What anxieties to you have about how they might receive you? None. What risks can you take? I'm a terrible cook so not many as I might burn the house down! What is the worse thing that could happen? The food would be burnt. What is the BEST? That my daughter and I enjoy eating together whilst feeling relaxed and happy. How can you make this a truly transformational encounter? Not sure, although our conversations over eating are often interesting!

My wheel of life at the present moment, it's a bit depressing sorry! I like to have pictures of my family around me and I collect everything. I am a bit of a hoarder to be honest and I find it hard to throw out anything. This may be due to losing both my mum and dad fifteen and sixteen years ago respectively. I keep photos everywhere and in some places I've run out of wall space! I nested when I was pregnant, I think most women do, and with my daughter leaving for university in the autumn I will miss her terribly but would never stop her going. I think my nest will be too quiet and I will definitely have 'empty nest' syndrome! Here are some of the many photos and bits and bobs I've used to create my nest:

I can't believe how wrinkly my hand is Knuckles look strange from too many years of Tae Kwon Do punching boards!

What have I learnt so far about me? I think I seem a bit self obsessed but it's just where I am at the moment, but if I was to pack a bag of intimate resources/objects what would it hold? Well.. Pictures of my beautiful daughter BeckyPictures of my mum, dad and brotherGlupy my childhood blue rabbitt (very thread bear as nearly 50 years old!) My holding cross (not that I am overtly religious) Lavender the smell is wonderfulMusic (u2, Bring me the Horizon, Vaughn Williams) and decent headphonesMy old wedding and engagement ringsWho would I share them with? Carrie FisherWhy? Because she knew what the battle with Bipolar disorder was like and would understand. I'm not sure what I would say about the contents of my bag but I would want to draw upon her positivity about her condition which was well publicised. Where would my destination be? Not very cultural, but Walt Disney World my favourite place in the world and we would just have fun on the rides, as she always seemed to be someone who had fun in life. Probably a bit too simplistic but I love it there!

Oddly enough I became more feminine after my husband left. This was not a so much of a conscious decision but an subconscious one. I grew my hair, did my makeup and sometimes my nails. I initially lost a lot of weight, which I sadly put back on (plus a bit more), something that does make me feel bad, but I've always had quite low self esteem. My wardrobe is stuffed with clothes most of which I do wear and despite only holding three dresses and no skirts I am still a feminine soul!

Raindrops on glass. Room becomes dark. Dark like my mood. Not able to shake off easily. Keep telling myself not to worry. So dark. Strange weather. Big blobs of rain. Not sure if I'm doing things right. Worry a lot.

Attention was never a problem when I was married. My husband was always attentive even up to when I discovered he was having an affair. He always what some would call the 'perfect husband' and were shocked to hear of what he had been up to. I don't think I've ever accepted him going. I still miss him now to be honest, although I swore never to have him back which would be very unlikely anyway as he has remarried and has two children. I still miss him though and feel that my future has been in some ways stolen from me. In hindsight perhaps I did not have enough appreciation of him. He did so much for me or was he controlling? I'm not sure. Perhaps it is true when people say that you only appreciate something when it is gone. I don't know really. I truly miss the affection for each other that we shared. He made me laugh. Even though it has been fifteen years since we split I still miss that attention and the affection that we had for each other. Sometimes loneliness kicks in and I have to allow this feeling and accept it.

What is your Lift? My beautiful daughter (pictured below) She is my world completely. So beautiful! What is your Drag? My drag is my mental health. Sometimes great, sometimes absolutely terrible. Self doubt and rumination. I think I'm a perfectionist. What is your Thrust? I have a strange inner drive, I don't like to be beaten. I often feel, when unwell that I cannot go on or it is too hard but there is something inside that will not let me give up. What Grounds you? My friends, especially my best friend who always sees the positives and is always quick to point them out to me. How do you keep afloat or in flight? I hate to say it but medication possibly, although as said before I don't give up easily. What propels you forward? (Your huge heart? Your memory of where to find nourishment? Your ability to adapt? Your ability to change direction and focus on what resources you have within you? Your ability to drop excess baggage?) I am quite determined and I don't like to fail.

The beautiful goddess daughter. Discovering, recognising and allowing the goddess to flourish that is you too. There is something inside that WILL NOT let me give up. It is ME! I am strong and powerful and alive. I am here. Its nice to see you and hear you Cathie. Emerge… I am determined and I don't like to fail.

Cathie: I became more feminine after my husband left. Dancing with a beautiful fairy and smiling strongly radiant. Radiant and hidden. Eyes and glasses. Screen and seen. Making the sharp angles smooth…

My Personal Growth is high along with my achievements. My Career, Security and Finances are low. I long for relationship, fun and recreation and more energy! My self esteem, health and well being need nurture. I have a string home, family and friendship base. X

Day 1: Loss. Love. Theft. Confusion. Happiness. Sadness. Day 2: Collections. Memories. Loss. Pregnancy. Empty nest. Photographs. Cabinets.

SpidersSoftness. Fake fur. Overthinking over feeling… Kindness and encounter. Tarantula – lets make one! J Face held in tenderness and anticipation. Cup thrown wall said ouch. Kindness, kindness, and more kindness… deep soft nests of it… mmmmTouching base… meeting up… My daughter. Waves of unexpected memories. Sadness. Happiness. But especially my daughter. Kwon Do punching boards! Knuckles. Ring. Keyboard. Keys.

Warm, suspended, close, heart beats, muffled voices, touch, safety, attachment, glow, peace. Mmmmmmmmmm – I feel you… :)

Don’t worry be happy. Loving self. Loving kindness. Live for today. My illness is not the definition of me. BE PROUD. Be Creative. Notice YOUR value. Shine.

Watching and Listening. How powerful the human voice is. Affective. A letter read from a soldier by his bereaved mother. It was so powerful, so moving. The human voice and the individual story.

I hope that my daughter says that she likes the food. My daughter and I enjoy eating together whilst feeling relaxed and happy. Our conversations over eating are often interesting!

Negative, Negative, Negative. I can forgive, but I never ever forget. I will never let her into my feelings again. Very sad, very very sad. The barriers have gone up again… I took a risk and it hurt. I paused and reflected. I took responsibility for my feelings but stood my ground. Are you still friends? What is a friend? VITRIOL. Harsh and Angry words. Loving and forgiving. Acceptance.

Cathie the feeling of loneliness and solitude how do both spaces feel? Are they different? I wanted to share a post from Participant 9 which I have shared on Day 8’s posting… I found it of comfort what do you think? So may other people spoke also of missing the nuances of touch and face to face contact… 'I sat on the train, I looked around and I am not exaggerating, every single person in the carriage had their head down either on a laptop, iPad or phone. Some people had headphones on, some were texting away, some talking and all were in their own little world. I did not have any eye contact from anyone. I felt excluded and alone. That sense of being excluded made me want to reach for my phone and I realised I was only wanting to do so because I felt alone. I wanted to 'connect' with someone, something of interest. I felt a different sense of aloneness sitting there on a train full of people. Attention was elsewhere. It was focused in and out via digital devices. It was not in the immediate space, environment around the people. I do it myself and I know that I am cutting off and going somewhere more comfortable.’ (Participant 9). Have you read/seen these?

A wish for Cathie. Sunshine radiates through. The room lightens. Like my mood today. I flow and I accept. I do not worry. The light is here. My moods come and go like the weather… always changing, never fixed. Beautiful melancholy. I watch the clouds pass, the waves as they come and go… Touching rays of sunlight warm my heart. I am perfect just how I am. Perfectly imperfect. Just how we all are. I accept. Me. I accept being Cathie. Ocean waves, light surf on… Meeresrauschen, leichte…

Intensity. Willpower. Strategy. Investigative. Competitive. Never Give Up. Trauma. Strong. Opinionated. Fairness. Sad and Blue needing relationship. Black catastrophe. A chance to shine…

Pictures of my beautiful daughter BeckyPictures of my mum, dad and brotherGlupy my childhood blue rabbitt (very thread bear as nearly 50 years old!) My holding cross (not that I am overtly religious) Lavender the smell is wonderfulMusic (u2, Bring me the Horizon, Vaughn Williams) and decent headphonesMy old wedding and engagement rings

A turntable with integrated tape deck. I couldn't believe it. I couldn't believe it. I couldn't believe it. I couldn't believe it. Round and round and round. This was my first foray into audio, something I loved that would stay with me forever. It was my birthday. I was twelve.