Holkham Bay, North Norfolk. This is one of my very special places (as it is for many others). There's a Japanese photographer who takes amazing timeless images of sea and sky, but I took this long before I knew about him. This beach always feels prehistoric and timeless to me, and I feel part of that when I'm there. further useful traction points of cross-reference, resonance and resource in relation to your birth skies- It is my symbolic map of navigation- the planetary cycles and anniversaries are waypoints- I have mapped transits and progressions as symbolic meaning in tough timesI keep the fact that I have used a specific esoteric type of astrology since I was around 17 quiet—it is misunderstood and trivialised in popular culture, and has an unfortunate following with smiley practitioners usually dressed in white or purple (should actually be violet, which is more blue than purple [1]) all far too rainbow-dolphin for me. I see it as a vast, complex symbolic system that resonates with my inner life. But I never talk to academic colleagues or most friends about it. I might like to integrate this someday, but without risking intellectual ostracisation or the derision of my rational friends. After many years of private research I made this map to show one set of relationships in Alice Bailey's Esoteric Astrology system, because no-one else has, and because translating her work for a modern audience and stripping away the cultural prejudice of one of the 'founding mothers' of the New Age to reveal the crucial information is a strange and persistent 'calling' that feels like a job I have to do: What seems to align? Sun opposite Saturn (see below)- Mercury and Jupiter conjunction: an expansive and inquiring mind- Mars rising, retrograde soon after birth until almost end of life: frustrating lack of energy- Mars sesquiquadrate Pluto, almost unbearable inner conflict, maturing into resilienceWhat seems untrue? Astrological stereotypes- the unintelligent concept of 'fate'- the idea that planets actually affect us personally- the niggling suspicion that it's all illusion, in the face of symbolic cultural impactWhat insights/resistances offer traction? Saturn opposite sun, learning patience and long-term persistence, continuity. Melancholy progress through pain and challenge but also building stability over time. ‘aha’ moments in image, word, thought, sense, action, colour, sound? not any more, but there may be some in futureWhat intimacy, ‘in-to-me-i-see’ do you see when your 'sky and earth’, or your 'you and I' collide? not sure what this means, but: sky, infinite time, ideals, self regeneration- physical/resource restrictions and distractions versus peace, time to explore- learning all the time from everything- understanding others through experiences that cause me to (think I) feel as they haveBut sky is also nature/earth, being part of and in which is my regeneration. Notes violet is at the limits of human vision and hints at frequencies beyond our visual senses, purple is between red and blue and attempts to combine the two ends of the spectrum in a crude physical sense. Purple is NOT violet!

I covered this yesterday. I am lagging behind. In many ways, some as a 'late developer' (I was getting child rate on public transport until my mid-teens). I was born in the caul. Being born this way is supposed to mean I will never drown at sea, but sometimes I drowned in emotions instead. I was in the egg for a long time after being in the womb. A long, long time. My mother once left my in my pram in the butcher's shop, and went home. Then remembered she had a child. Probably why my parents lived with my grandma who looked after me for 3 years. I once wrote a line in a song: I never understand, we don't follow any rules, but there's something deep in Senegal tells me that we never, ever should. I wondered why Senegal came to mind and I liked the sound of the line but had no idea what I meant. I've seen other footage from Senegal too, much of it about how young children are integrated and grow up (there's some in a well-known video of 'babies' from many countries), but this was long after I wrote the song.

Anti-imprintingI had anti-imprints, avoiding the chaotic adult world of outbursts and incomprehensible behaviour. I recall sitting at the top of the stairs and crying for so long. Eventually my mother took pity and came up. I can't recall what triggered this event, but there were a few. So I did not want to grow up. I hated the adult world. I think I still do. We are meant to be responsible and coherent, and I do my best but then need to avoid being in it when I am unable to meet those demands. Like now. Like the past two days. Obsessive-compulsiveOCD means focussing on a thing in the world. A ritual, a collection, a habitual series of thoughts. When people are too overwhelming and unpredictable in childhood, a thing or things can be easier. I felt sorry for things, a cereal packet that became empty. Or a broken thing. Maybe I was that broken thing. I just had to re-title all my notes to order them so I can find them. Good OCD. Information sorting/filtering/organising/clarifying is what I spend a lot of time doing. It's good for preparing learning materials but takes a lot of time and falls apart if I don't allow enough space for that time. I only just noticed I can't move a note I made in my own notebook to another notebook, so these are late developers. They're lagging. Time and overwhelm How long can I not wash my hair? Ignore the irritation of time? The flood of demands on my attention? How do I avoid from the clamour and constant relatedness? I am at peace with my life, but lives outside this life, from sources not known to me, people I have no connection with, are noisy. Are noise. I am not interested in them because I know I would not be interested in spending time knowing them. The ones I value are here.

Numbered sets of things lead us to believe there's an answer. Make something look ordered and we feel that is has actually become ordered. Instead, it's interestingly chaotic (in the mathematical sense) and indefinite (in the philosophical sense). So I have a love/hate thing with numbered lists. I like that someone identified some things that they think are crucial, I don't like that others also have their lists and it's rare to see agreement on which list of things is universal. There can't be a universal one! I dislike even more the tendency for self-promoters to publicise their lists and write books and give talks about their lists. But any map is better than no map as a starting-point. So I love lists too. All this writing might seem distanced, but that's just how it seems. It's actually very personal. Autocorrect told me that it was Cruelly personal. I can't guarantee this volume or depth of output every day. This morning I woke up writing in my head and then writing it into SimpleNote (my text-only bare-bones repository of choice) so this flowed on from that. It also made me strip out everything from Evernote (wants money if you use it on more than two devices). Not a problem, in fact it's helped that long-overdue process, so Evernote is now for one purpose! 1. Attention Yes, when we are with someone who means something to us, or with anyone. Even 30 seconds of undivided conscious attention means so much more than just being there. As long as it's not used as a form of pressure. I've noticed in meetings people are often just waiting for a gap to say what they want. Some people never get that opportunity, or hold back before more assertive voices. Some don't wait for gaps at all and never get heard. Which is why we have the notion of the role of leader, and also why that role often attracts people not used to listening. Introverts and people with quiet voices or thoughts that ponder and wonder and consider before vocalising can be disadvantaged. For me, there's a LOT of social noise with little content, which drowns out any shared solitude and covers up deeper feelings. I still cannot handle crowds well, but I can now meet people's gaze. I had to reach the age of 24 before a friend pointed it out that I didn't. 2. AcceptanceCarl Rogers coined the phrase unconditional positive regard. It works well, unless someone is trying to coerce you from fear. He also had a brilliantly-formulated list of psychological necessities, based on years of research. On Becoming a Person became my guidebook for many years. I forgot all the items on the list, but not until I'd absorbed their meaning. Expecting people or someone to change is a recipe for disappointment. If we are disappointed with someone, we must have had expectations that don't fit their own expectations of what they want to be or are capable of. Sometimes I wake up depressed. Sometimes I get mad at a Thing In The World. Sometimes I am very withdrawn, which can be a rewarding dip into the inner, perhaps just plain weariness, or (I like to think) creative brooding. If I worry that any of the above might have an impact on people I'm close to, I explain and cannot relax until I know they are okay with it. In public or at work I don't really think too much about this, unless I'm having a really extreme day. I'd be crippled by empathy if I did. It very easy to work out who is accepting and who isn't. My partner doesn't take these inner climate changes personally, an ability I am delighted about. And one of the reasons I feel completely happy about the prospect of being married, a thing I didn't expect to do again. Or could have foreseen. For much of my life I tried not to upset people, even when they were being what is labelled unreasonable or angry but is usually just a front for some kind of fear. But that led me away from honesty and towards stressful and life-draining compromise. My days of putting people pleaser above be yourself are hopefully over. I don't think I got it right anyway. In fact I know now I got it quite wrong. I'm not sure anyone can get people pleasing right. 3. AppreciationGifts and caring are not appreciation; they can be nice tokens of a deeper thing, hollow ritual, or something done to make the giver feel worthwhile. Just acknowledging and letting a person be what they are is enough. You know when you're appreciated, and it's easy to make it plain that you appreciate someone, although it has to be in a way they will understand. 4. AffectionEmotional, mental and physical. All different, can all be together or separate. Depends on who. Touch is important, but touch can be mental and emotional we can be 'touched' by someone's feelings or openness, or by the fact that there is a durable shared connection. If I can sit with someone in silence, not needing confirmation of anything, it feels like the deepest intimacy. Touch with harmony is smooth, effortless, just fits, adjustments are intuitive. Touch without harmony feels jagged, awkward. Not being able to be yourself or express everything or having to keep quiet about something for whatever reason creates disharmony. 5. AllowingI don't like this one. If the others are in place, why is it necessary?

Placeholders: One day my older aunt came to collect me from my parents' downstairs flat to show me a van full of bread that had hit a lamp post just around the corner. There was squashed bread on the road, and I was fascinated by the 'disruption' (fashionable word) from the normal. I was obsessed with cars and could name them just by listening to the tone of the exhaust. I’d love to hear this story from the perspective of Day 8… fascinating… To come. Exhausted (by/all) my contribs for today. I spent nearly all afternoon on this and was drawn in. link to day 8 prompt me Well, Evernote, that was a fail, and linked to one of my own notes. Let's try linking to the day 8 prompt again. COMPASS: drawing away/pulling towards, ‘adhesive friction’ between one and another thing, (idea, person, screen/object) potentially ‘connect', ‘correct’, ‘heal’, ‘mend’, ‘overcome’, ‘relocate’ ‘reach out’ 'a given ‘impetus’ or ‘advancement’ or 'desired result’a narrative about an intimate encounter between yourself and another person/object/idea/place an ‘early' ‘threshold moment’ in your past life. in the first person, a story you are re-living now – what first comes into your head… write from your senses and heart. What did you hear, see, taste, smell, touch? stick to ‘What Happened?’ NO: Opinions Judgements Interpretations Commentary AVOID I thought I felt I decided I realised

I am already a butterfly but my wings have holes and dustWhat layers have you have shed…? (What were you fed as a child? (Touch) As a child and later, when I grew out of the first one (below) I had two jumpers my parents called my second skin, because they were (and both home-knitted in the first 'knitting' wave). The second was orange and I only threw it away last year! But I took a picture first. So these are my two 'second skins'. What did you learn as a teenager. (Traction)? That the adult world as it was in ordinary culture was something I rejected That the inner world is a most powerful placeWhat remains in your muscle memory, that you silently rehearse? Withdrawal from overwhelm: social noise, extraverts, too much communication What happens when you become ‘transparent’ a state that is not caterpillar nor either yet butterfly what rests in these places of ‘becoming?’ It can be an agony, like psychological pins'n'needles, neither one thing nor the other, not knowing how long the silent jiggling between two states will persist, and what will emerge. Or it can be a period of depression, total lack of motivation or ability to focus on anything. I keep a diary at those times. Here's the most recent: For the last few weeks I've been experiencing the deepest and most incapacitating depression (for want of a better word) I've ever felt. It could be that I need (leukaemia) treatment, as the fatigue (and other symptoms) is also very enervating and of concern. Yesterday I felt paralysed, and all I could manage was a bit of essential and long-overdue washing, reading one magazine article during which I fell asleep, and sorting out some receipts, very very slowly. My brain seems not to work well and I can't think straight or focus well at all. The sense of sheer incapacity and demotivation is a bit scary and overwhelming at this level. My fears seem to be exaggerated and I feel imprisoned by extreme inertia and lack of motivation. I'm letting things slide badly, barely managing the essentials. I just read back over the last two instances of this. The only changes seem to be: frustration had been replaced by a defeated sense of apathythe family issues are quieter although they are still unresolvedthere's more neglect but less internal pressure to do thingsI crave/need a lot of time out, but it seems increasingly hard to make it. What is in this your ‘secret dwelling place’ now? Total freedom to do what I want, no demands, infinite time and spacedraw/sing/speak/map/write/photograph/dance what it might look like to ‘rearrange’ your 'caterpillar self’ into a butterfly? I am the butterfly, but damaged over a harsh Winter. Here is evidence of the butterfly, done last week with two other musicians: 6guitarsM. mp3Maybe think about: what is your adult self needing to do, say, show, resource, feed now? The first thing that came to mind was fuck off!  not to you, Alice, but to everything tha makes demands on my time, my resource, my energy. Let me fuck off and give me time/space to transform! DreamLast night I had a remarkable dream. I wandered through this house. The floorboards and rooms were all bare, there was nothing much left and it was obvious that I was moving out, yet in the dream I felt unutterably sad, and had tears in my eyes. I tried to make sense of it, and the first thing that came to mind was that I was dying to my old life (yet again!) and the empty house was me leaving the husk, the chrysalis, if you like, of the old skin I once inhabited. It could no onger contains me or server me in any way, and had to be shed. EmergenceOver the past two months I've attended with my partner no less than 4 artist-related events/private views, in two of which I was a collaborator or had a hand: Georgina Barney's book GB Farming I worked with her on the design and managed the desktop publishing process from start to delivery. Here's my friend François' blog post on the book. Esther Rolinson's exhibition at Watermans A talk between her and Douglas Dodds (V& A Senior Curator, Digital Art). I worked with her on early ideas for her sculpture Splinter and Processing recreations of these. It's all helping me feel part of this again, after so long I feel I'm coming in from the cold. Maybe even my wings are healing a bit. After spending the afternoon and most of the evening at Sean Clark's CyberCulture exhibition, the feeling is that I'm no longer an impostor, I was there then and I'm still here now, and I need to really own this, instead of pretending that I'm a tolerated visitor in a world where people do and have done much more as I see it than I have. I spoke with Sean about being part of the group running the Love Night in Nottingham in the late dance music era, where we had art, drumming, DJs, complementary therapies and tarot readers and a chill-out room all in one building, in separate rooms. I was proud to have been part of it. I'm beginning to see that I do many things, not just one, and that is beginning to be seen. While I was at the LCB someone I knew from my band days 20 years ago approached me, and we chatted. We'll be in touch. He runs some of the stuff at the LCB Depot. It all felt very timely. Yet the precursor was those two weeks of awful mental state. Inner chaos presages or drives the need to change, to make order in the world, creative order of a kind I make with others.

I want what I am on the inside to become the outside. That, in a sentence, is it! Me as a Hummingbird: What is your Lift? having time and space to do stuff that lifts me being really appreciated as a whole personWhat is your Drag? people talking badly of me yet not knowing me or understanding other people making arrangements that impact on me without discussion people who think I owe them something presumptions based on chronological age*What is your Thrust? being part of a creative community of people and being valued by it achieving anything of any value being inspired after drifting in my and my partner's floating world What Grounds you? keeping things in (only rough) order washing, finances, mild gardening, cleaning (sometimes), sorting shit out, paperwork, tidyingHow do you keep afloat or in flight? I don't. I have to land frequently, and sleep wellWhat propels you forward? having a goal that depends on other people a strong will like water than flows around obstacles my ability to keep going, to persist quietly, periodically but constantly(Your huge heart? Your memory of where to find nourishment? Your ability to adapt? Your ability to change direction and focus on what resources you have within you? Your ability to drop excess baggage?) * as an 'officially older person' I see age as the interaction of three factors: 1. chronological, or your actual age, how old you are in time; 2. psychological/cultural, or how aware you are and where your interests lie; 3. biological, or how well you've managed your body/how lucky you've been with your genetic inheritance.

NOTE: I'm free-forming a bit and going off-track but it's what's coming out. Packing a bag Q fromAlice: pack your bag for your journey. What have you learnt on your journey so far… (in life and in the last 21 days…)… what is coming with you? A from Dave: Things I can't do without (all a bit practical, I know, but hey, it's what emerged without thought): guitar laptop (partly because I like to code for leisure) iPad/phone (also serve as writing/reading materials) books water snacks and food I like dental floss vitamin D aspirin earplug shair stuff PLUS! A person of my choice as a companion. Other things I would take: aims and the panning and will to take steps towards themfreedom, space and time to create and playlove and intimacysupport with the things I need to feel good (from myself and others) new-found confidencea feeling of detachment from stressful thingsthe sense that I've not neglected anything badlysome kind of temporal order (to counter my timelessness) A virtual journey and a real cardiac episode(The image links to the game intro video) This happened around the time I started writing out the above list. Seemed relevant as it was a journey of its own kind. Thanks to my partner's experience with gaming I'm starting another virtual journey in a rather amazing RP game (bit late to the party, but hey). It's a huge virtual world with weather, day/night, food, sleep, resources, skills, conversations with non-player-characters (NPCs that are essentially AI characters programmed to respond to what I do and how I reply), etc. I had a very sobering experience when my actual physical chest started to hurt after getting killed (virtually) in the game (from being too incautious and inexperienced, and panicking). It was so severe I had to lie down, take Nitromin, and sleep for a bit. I've had previous episodes out of the blue, but never synced so closely to a virtual world like that. Bit scary, but maybe this shows the power of our ability to empathise (if that's what it is) within a virtual world. If Mirror neurones are sensitive to characters in virtual worlds, especially in RPGs (Role-Playing Games) where you are the person in the virtual world, then this would tap into other research where simply visualising activities activates parts of the brain and even the body involved in actually doing those same activities. It could also be that I'd played too long, was getting uncomfortable sitting upright and also coming to the end of a long period of stress and ignoring the warning twinges. Still, what a co-incidence, if it wasn't actually the result of my mirror neurones empathising with my character's fate.

We're on our own, with each other. Q from Alice: what ‘Resources of Hope’ can you offer ‘up’ to take forward into Phase 2 for yourself and for the group to together continue to create 'Transformational Encounters: Touch, Traction, Transform’ which will touch, trouble and transform future audiences within the TETTT exhibition, May 2018. Q from Alice how have I: Felt my own longings? Acted in alignment with my own truth? Taken the… Courage to be real? Touched, Traction-ed and Transformed my own life purpose? So far. A from Dave: the overwhelming desire to be free from constant contact and able to rejuvenate and focus on what I can give to people and whatever in the world wants what I have to give determinedly entered into a relationship knowing it might divide my social group and family, and bloody glad I didCbeing honest about my decisions, and about my feelings and fears with those I had been close to, and those I am now close toTI'm not sure, but SOMETHING IS DEFINITELY HAPPENING! Change is occurring and this reflection is a catalytic part of the process.

Just quickly done using the only working online wheel of life thing I could find, and then I did it again after thinking a bit more (see below), constantly mutates but there are constants. In this I was oh shit my health is a pain so I'll ignore it for now and have fun!  But I did it again: I'm all fuck careers in this one. I dislike the loaded word spirituality so would have upped it more if could change the label! My ex-wife used to tell me that I had Maslow's triangle upside-down: self-realisation at the expense of stability and material well-being. I've been trying to address that ever since… I've tried this kind of thing loads of times (maps of the self, life, etc.) and ave a folder full of it which I look at sometimes. But I only ever change organically, never by trying. Having some definite destinations and journeys in mind makes things happen, though. When looking for another tool I saw Why I never use the wheel of life which is about the fact that equilibrium is static, and in nature you always need something to keep the dynamism going. So balance is not life? Continual dynamic equilibrium (I know, Chemistry, but that was the first I could find and it's a bigger complex systems thing) is very different from balance.

Q. How do you nest? A. I had a crisis. I wasn't able to face the day. A friend whose father gave her a big jar of psyllocybin mushrooms gave me a small jar. I took enough to last long enough. I spent most of the day inside a duvet like a tent, completely covered. I had a significant memory which put a whole lot of things in my psyche in place. Then I remembered being born, opening my eyes and seeing a streak of blood on my mother's thigh. A. I was born without the waters breaking. A. I remained in a psychological self-contained bubble for much of my life until other people helped me awake and break out of my egg. I have poetry about this but it would need to be dug out. B. What is your experience of nesting? A. Spending 3 years in my bedroom as a teenager. Surrounded by electronic and random mess with a path around the outside to my bed, then one day clearing it all up. Writing poetry. Learning to play guitar. Being obsessed with one impossible classmate. Being obsessed by number and collecting and geometry and order. Following symbolic systems. Painting a picture every day until all the space on the walls and ceiling was covered. My nest. Later, I gave away nearly all of the paintings to anyone who happened to visit my parent's house. A. Listening to late night radio under the bed covers. Q. What nests have you built, destroyed, abandoned, redesigned? A. Making a circle of dead branches and stones, welcoming the four directions with my partner at the time, vowing another year, and then breaking apart the circle so that no trace was left. A. Marriage and then breaking it, from naïveté, ignorance and being too young to understand the source of emotions that were hard for me to be around. Repeating that pattern with love and yet realising why and how. A. Having my own naïveté destroyed. The inescapable melancholy of leaving the nest of innocence and never being able to return. Repeating this experience until I find I can survive. Nested (not tested) let nesting = function(nest, sociable, melancholy, creative) { if (nest) { If (! sociable) { If (melancholy) { creative ? beCreative(doWhat) : consolidate(doWhat) } } else { sleep() } }}Poems: ObscurityI sit in skinCold and neatly folded as lizard fleshEating ancient, shadowy substanceCling-wrapped in obscurity. Where I moveThe action is erasedWhen I actThe result is neutralCancelled outBefore the start. I learn in Winter; Sleepless in shadowSharp signs beneath opaque lids, To scratch out the next stepStillNot calm; but the rhythmic rumble of bloodIn ears touched only by the turningOf this leviathan globeUntil the moon's half-shadowCasts sufficient light to reveal my placeIn this hybrid tide: I am myself the thing I seekEyes openThe egg is cracked, the timer setMy head is outI see the worldFor the first time. I know: This is a metaphor, Not a birth; The symbol of a thingHeld in, restrained. The due date just slipped byAnd now it is awake, Alert and curiousStretching out, Unstoppable. PaintingWhen I was 17 and coming out of nesting. The orb is me, I suppose.

We are leaning over my Nana's wall in Swansea, talking and paying attention to each other intently. Sarah-Jane's parents (I think that's her name) are potters or some kind of creative people, living near the sea and away from big cities. I feel excited to make a friend here, so far from my parents' home. I stay here in Summer while my parents are off somewhere. I experiment with my Nana's piano, pressing my ear to the wood to hear the very last sounds fading away. The smell of the breakfast room full of light, geraniums and my Grandad's fishtanks. My Nana calls the rook she rescued, which flies down from somewhere and lands on her shoulder whenever she stands in the garden and calls Rookie! . I think Sarah-Jane likes me, and I like her too. I am drawn in to the promise of a connection. I am about 5. I reach down to a cat, I think it's Sarah-Jane's parents'. It claws my arm and I am alarmed and shocked. It's the first time I've encountered an animal that harms me. Very soon after this I am in love with Josephine at junior school. My feelings are so intense that hymn 144 acquires a special significance because her surname is Gross. I write 144 in the soap while I'm in the bath. It feels so intense. I choose her in dancing class at school, feeling happy but a bit clueless what do I do now the girl I love is holding my hand? I am 7 years old. Later, when I am 13 she sits behind me in class and I cannot turn round, it is so intense. Unfed and unrealised, the feeling fades within a year or so. I begin to hate my inaction, and feel despair at the fear and hesitation in me, and start to withdraw from life in general. This withdrawal lasts a long time. Back at my parents' home, my neighbour (the girl next door) and I play doctors and nurses. I am not in love with her. In a tent in my parents' garden she says I'll show you mine if you show me yours so we do. I now know that her clitoris was quite pronounced as she could lift it up like a small penis. I just accept everything as it is, all new to me. A bit later we try a kiss, but I don't quite know how. I think our tongues touch a bit. I am 13. Later, we're lying together under my bed (I don't know why, it just feels cosy so that's what we do). She says she has kissamitis or something. I don't quite get it so miss the cue. Over the previous 5 or 6 years she and another schoolfriend used to argue over who would walk me home, but I still didn't get it. I need to catch up with how fast the girls are growing up, and that takes a few years longer. In meantime I fall for Lorraine who (I find out later from my next friendship group) would get stoned and hang out with local musicians, older than her. I just find her irresistibly melancholy and get drawn in. After hanging around during her class in the art room (where I am allowed to go any time I like after refusing to do games on Wednesday afternoons) I ask her out but it is hopeless we haven't even talked before now and she politely declines, saying she can't and smiles faintly, sympathetically. I think it's because she has a thing with one of the older musicians. So there is no we. There was no we for much of that time I spent long periods alone. I failed to make contact, except for a best friend I choose after turning my back on my large friendship group. They had cheated me out of money during the poker we played after school, after I won everything. I had no idea until they told me. They're the alpha group, but they have begun to grow up too fast for me. There's a discussion about whether one of them is going to get a birthday fuck when his girlfriend turns 16. I hate that kind of talk and attitude. I don't want to grow up like that. Next day I go in determinedly alone, knowing I am alone by choice and by the acton of my own will. On that day I reject my former life and friends. After an hour or so I choose the only other person sitting alone and make him my friend. He's an introvert, and we take his sheltie dog for walks. We share our separateness from the big friendship groups. About a year later I join the other big friendship group. They play bridge, not poker, and some of them write poetry. I begin to write poetry too and form a new best friendship. His girlfriend makes it plain that she wants to be with me. I asked him if he's okay with that and he says yes, he likes her best friend (it doesn't last), so we end up as a close foursome of two rearranged couples. A new phase begins. I am 18 and still a bit removed from everything. But I have sex for the first time. I start my first relationship, that lasts for over 3 years. I start to be able to become part of a we. Things to come back to: death song from Skins- Keats quote- Stopping fishing- depression and creativityAt 13- chicken-pox- model car scraping- knocking code- oob first time 13- oob second time 17

Deaths is what happened My friend Alan died. We used to go out cycling with another friend. I am about 11. A car hit him (I wasn't there). Me and my friend cycle to his house and sit on our bikes. We say to each other Alan's not there any more. We feel very matter-of-fact. We carry on. Without Alan. Roads are lethal. Cars are worse than guns. What a stupid idea: to put people in control of vehicles, and make places where other people walk and cycle right next to fast, hard objects controlled by… PEOPLE. Stupid. Yet, everyone accepts it as normal and there's no initiative to change this madness. We are STUPID STUPID STUUUPID! Later, Beatrice dies in a boating accident. Before she died, we would meet at her house and hang out, a close group. Now, every time I walk past it I feel the hollow, just enough to wonder what actually happened?  or how did she die?  and why did it happen, surely someone could have prevented it?  We carry on. Without Beatrice, or a place to meet up. My father is showing me my Grandad's body, telling me, safely and with confidence Look, grandad's not there any more. I can see that he isn't. This is just a body with no relation to the grandad I knew. The moment is changing me, and the way I see death. My friend PM dies of complications after breast cancer. My first soul-mate. I feel sad we did not actually meet up nearer the day of her death, although settled that she's okay with it and didn't want me to see her like this. I wept when I got the news. A first for a personal bereavement. My cat is in my arms as the vet injects him (terminal liver failure). I look into his eyes, the ones that went gooey with huge pupils as he looked up nestled in my armpit under the covers in bed when I lived alone. My ex asked me to look after him because she kept moving house and he hated it and ran away. He was only just out of kittenhood at the time, so he grew up with me. When I get home I cry and my partner at the time understands and I appreciate that. I am about 5 or 6 (I think) and crying uncontrollably after the Disney film Old Yeller, so much so that my parents don't know what to do with me (It's okay, it's only a film). I let it all out and don't hold back. All that crying I had no excuse for before, and the film has opened the floodgates and now I'm free to cry as much as I want to and I do. To me, animals feel equal, emotionally, to humans. Perhaps even more so when I see they can't understand or tell us how they feel. My doctor tells me he wept more over his cat than his father. I am identifying my father's body, on the floor next to his bed, covered for modesty in a blanket by the officials (I think they might be police but not sure). I know I have to cry. I wait and it comes. Not so intense, just some regret and sadness that today was going to be the first time I visited him for some time. It felt like 'appropriate' grief for an 'appropriate' amount of time. After awhile I go back downstairs and tell them what they want to know. Hearing F's young children wailing with uncontrollable grief and sobbing ‘mum!’ at her funeral as the coffin goes through the curtains into the furnace. The memory even just typing and re-reading this brings tears to my eyes now. F was another soul-mate friend and we went for walks. She was a 'wise woman' and qualified medical herbalist and we discussed alien abduction and invisible beings. She was only in her 30s and it wasn't even fucking cancer, just a stupid untreatable growth that crowded out her insides. So many people I knew died in the space of 4-5 years, including some I haven't mentioned. The feelings of a hollow gut. Of being 'gutted' but not in the stupid superficial way people use the phrase now. Really gutted, because that's how it feels, that someone has taken out part of your insides and there's a hollow. And the lump in my throat, the constriction of swallowing the grief because if I don't it might not stop.

Placeholder brief: main moments of ‘Traction’ in your life, real ’Turning Points’, the threshold between before/after. I'm uncertain about the meaning of 'traction', despite reading the notes, so here's my best attempt. Before Traction Aha ‘Moment’What next? protection from the world age 5 first day at school, classmate offering me a freshly-picked nose bogey climbing to the top of a rope in the school hall, because I have no fear thinking I don't like children or relate to them and is this normal? Am I supposed to be like this? games teacher fetching the headmaster, me thinking she was proud, realising later she was afraid for me innocence age 13 realising that my brother had learnt how to masturbate years before me, after thinking I had 'invented' it with a bathroom sponge and named it 'false fucking' from being happy in my innocence, being wrecked for years by the conflict between idealistic love, sexual desire and my naïveté confused tweenage 13 first out of body experience in which I 'met' my 'self' as a coffin-sized amber crystal discovering the concept of reincarnation even more confused tween, isolation from others, feeling 'separate' thinking this is for me, school Christianity isn't. child, father knows best age 13 my father telling me I can draw better than him after seeing one of my pictures of a crashed warplane possession of my own talents knowing my place age 15-16-ish tackling the school bully after he was insulting people realising I have the courage to stand up for things I think are principles teenager, looking for something beyond the normal social maturation process of my peersage 17, discovering meditation the amazing experience of a completely other state of consciousness later: second out of body experience losing interest in cars and in 'normal life', the need to explore that inner world instead telling my mother, thinking she'd be happy, alarmed that she was concerned proud of going to extremes age 18, getting so drunk I was sick while asleep without waking up. It was green. listening to my mother warning me I could have died. Thinking about it. beginning of realisation that excess and extremes can't fix my inner conflicts or pain keeping calm to the point of passivity age 21, my partner being unfaithful knowing I was angry, not knowing what to do about it negative suppression of strong emotions for many years feeling that I was 'special' or had a unique task to carry outage 19/20 meeting a Hindu 'devotee' who radiated something remarkable (her name is buried somewhere in my memory) realising that there was something new to aspire to, and I was just part of something much bigger fearless concerning all physical danger age 25 looking over a cliff feeling physical fear for the first time, realising my mortality things too painful to put down around 30? too hard to write, hurting each other so much, I'm the cause the effect life going chaotic has on others who are defenceless not knowing real intimate connection late 30s? First relationship with real connection the release of knowing this is possible, yet it ends confidence, knowing I can find that connection again I had better stop, there are many more such moments after this. I feel as if I'm on my third or even fourth life within one lifetime. Before digesting this I found: —image from Scientific American article The Messy Minds of Creative People, Scott Barry Kaufman 24 December 2014.

Q from Alice: invite someone ‘out' and allow them 'in’ through your listening. What is their story? What needs to be heard? How does it feel to hear it? Where do you feel it? Your listening allows their story to be heard and to emerge you complete their story in your listening… wow! What a gift you are! 😃 A from Dave: Thinking hard about a far-right school colleague who I deliberately didn't unfriend on Facebook (partly because he organises the school reunions I sometimes attend). All my other friends gave up on him, but I think he's just scared or having other stresses that he channels into bigotry. He recently posted a long bit about the hard situation his ageing mother is in regarding stepfathers/sones/ etc. and was obviously really troubled by it. Doesn't excuse some of the crap he puts out, but being able to see the reason opens a door a little. I've kind of 'listened' an responded when either: I have something to add that puts a different sideI think he has a point, even if I don't go along with the presumptions that come with itHe posts something that I can honestly 'like' in order to show that I'm not the enemy Q from Alice: Maybe (if you are feeling really brave) you could even invite a ‘stranger’ to ’story’ with you and practice really 'hearing them’.. or perhaps you contact someone who you’ve not spoken to in a long while and that you might have ‘unfinished resonances/conversations’ with, perhaps you would like to say… ‘hello’… ‘sorry’… ‘I love you’ or 'Can you tell me again… I think I might be able to hear you now’… notice what happens for you, and potentially for them (ask for feedback if you are feeling a total superhero…) what happens to you both when you meet each other in listening and being and co-affecting… Think in your listening about: Your prompt. Their response. Your Noticing. Perhaps use 'Reflect’ (Nicolson, 2005: 42) to encourage their story to emerge and your conversation discussions to take place… actionreflectionimmersiondetachmentemotion analysisA from Dave: placeholder. But Pete has gone a bit quiet, and so has Jo. SO I would like to contact them.

I never touch… instagram or WhatsApp or PinterestI like to touch… my partner's skin I am completely in touch with… other people's feelings. I cant switch this off. I have felt touched by… nature I wish I had touched… space I like being touched on… my hands I swear I never touched… a taxi driver I left a mark on… time I am touched every time… someone honestly expresses themselves I like to touch base by… being quiet and still I like to touch base with… nothing to distract me The past touches me like… history A taxi driver once rubbed the inside of my thigh. I was young, I did not resist forcibly but made it clear that I didn't want it. I think I said I'll get out here and walked, but it wasn't far. They touch because he leans… San Francisco, that famous bar opposite City Lights bookshop.

A tool of extension: Social media (like all software) is a tool that extends human contact, and not a replacement. People might use it as such if they struggle with face-to-face communication or social situations. I don't, but sometimes choose to express myself in written, not spoken words, as the latter can get mangled in the process of speaking and listening. A tool of distance: I see mothers pushing a pram, staring into texts and ignoring their child, even when the child is looking up, wanting a cue, some eye contact. I want to intervene, to tell the child this is not acceptable. I wonder what I would be like now if my mother had been like that. It can feel 'safer' to share digitally, but also exaggerate confirmation bias in a social media bubble where we select our 'friends' to echo our own tastes/tolerances. A tool of tyrannical misunderstanding: A tool of exaggeration or enhancementThe Theosophists' idea of the astral plane is that it is the psychic location we visit in dreams, out-of-body experiences (which I have experienced many times and written about) and after death. Crucially for this comparison, it is held to be a place were individuals are drawn together though similarity, unlike the material world where any individual can meet any other, and in which we consequently encounter dissimilarities. According to the historic occult literature that underlies the New Age movement, on the Astral plane we can encounter only similarity. Social media can become like the Astral plane if we select what we already 'like' and more significantly if the code that serves advertising (on Facebook etc. but also on the web at large) gathers our visits and choices and assembles them into 'our preferences', but only as it sees them (see image what Twitter thinks I like). I see the following as inferentially related, and have always wanted to write about it. The emoji characters in the astral planes of Unicode character encoding give us the Snowman and now-infamous Pile-of-poo (☃ 💩), as well as a load of other 'emoticons' that pepper social media posts and messages. Unicode handles the characters of most languages in an encoding of numbers and letters that range from 0-9, then A-F (U+0000 → U+FFFF). Beyond this 'Basic Multilingual Plane' of 65 thousand symbols are the 'astral planes' where many non-lingual characters live (about 1 million with code points from U+010000 → U+10FFFF). Mere co-incidence that these are now widely-used in the virtual and predominantly 'friends-only' astral-like worlds of social media, or the secret joke of programmers raised on the sci-fi spirituality and Alan Moore occult comic-book world of the early web? Experiences DF's emails (no outcome, identity protected) Many years ago now. A long friendly interchange sharing humour and interests. Also keeping each other company at a distance, Had met only once or twice though Disability Arts movement. early on, she was recovering from something, and rarely spoke. Felt like a virtual relationship by email. After agreeing to meet in the physical world, her car broke down on the day. A pointer to keep things virtual? She is now married with a daughter and her husband and her are amazing at renovating properties. Although we are still friends on social media with the same level of understanding, there's also acceptance of separate real lives. Fania's emails (massive outcome) A long build-up of communication that soon began to feel very intimate psychologically, with an ease of sharing our inner selves. A feeling that we were 'courting' instead of the common genitals-first approach, helped by physical distance mediated by technology. A sense of increasing connection through email, and an ability to share without to much vulnerability, yet also a willingness to feel vulnerable and share anyway. Eventual disclosure of real feelings by email, paralleled by long discussions and real-world connection. Tentative and cautious yet with a high degree of certainty. Key emails: I like rain and stars, Mono no aware (sharing a Japanese philosophical phrase we both felt at home with and the title of a short story). 物の哀れ mono no aware a melancholy sensitivity to ephemera, an awareness of the impermanence or transience of things and an accepting wistfulness at their passing, as well as a longer deeper gentle sadness that this state is the reality of life itself. What Twitter thinks I like:

I held back until I was well into middle age before I could describe myself as a 'man'. I still really dislike the term. I understand I have the privilege (as it has been described, although it is also a burden) of my gender. But I do not identify with it entirely, and resisted adopting 'manhood' for as long as possible. I even toyed with the idea of cross-dressing in a Grayson Perry-kind of way, or 'trying to be a girl', but the urge never really took hold. I parted my hair the wrong way in a mirror with my friend at around the age of 12 so I could 'look like a girl' and (under the influence of oxygen, which we used to make in his parents' garage and inhale) I put on his mother's fur coat. I found out much later that my father was disturbed by homo-erotic dreams. I didn't know this, my daughter read his diary after his death and told me. He bought me a football at around age 6 so I wouldn't 'grow up to be a pouf' but I hated sport. He accepted me as 'artistic/creative' in the end, so he must have been relieved. I have a picture of both parents cross-dressed for a fancy-dress thing. My father had a crisis at some point, and my mother told me he probably fell in love with a man. She also fell in love periodically, later on quite openly. She told me that my brother might not be my brother but apparently he is. Two of my partners were bisexual women, the first got me to wear makeup sometimes when I went out. I like being in an 'equal' role physically as well as psychologically, if that's at all possible with actual gender differences and all that cultural baggage and presumption. And the other person needs to feel similar. My auntiesI was raised by women: my grandmother (a union leader in the boot and shoe industry in Leicester) until I was 3, and then two 'aunts', both teachers, one the leader of the women's section of the Leicester Labour Party (when they had a womens' section). They taught me a lot, and I used to leave my parents in their flat on the ground floor and go upstairs to 'live' with my 'aunties' who shared a large flat. I know now I imprinted massively on one of them, who had long black hair and an 'academic' appearance. She was the younger of the two. The older had false teeth that clacked when she talked. She knew I liked to see vehicle collisions; it was a trait that disturbed my father so much he showed me a book with graphic images, which I found in his stuff when he died and still have. I once flattened a toy car of his—he called me a destructive little (something I can't recall) and his outburst shocked me, as I was only about 4. Later, I used to ram my pedal car against walls and lamp-posts, and it kind of excited me (yes, I've seen 'Crash' and it wasn't like that although I get it). One day my older aunt came to collect me from my parents' downstairs flat to show me a van full of bread that had hit a lamp post just around the corner. There was squashed bread on the road, and I was fascinated by the 'disruption' (fashionable word) from the normal. I was obsessed with cars and could name them just by listening to the tone of the exhaust. The failure of asexuality After my first relationship (just over 3 years from age 18) I tried to be asexual by renouncing everything and living in the ashram of a Hindu cult (in the UK—this began, unsurprisingly, in Leicester). This was an uphill struggle from the start, especially being at art college, surrounded by the sexual charge of my peers. But I stuck it out as best I could for a year until I met my first wife. Who I also resisted, until I stopped resisting. At one point I actually put her on the guru's altar in the ashram, to 'give her back'. What a naive fool I was, unprepared for my own sexuality. Anger and 'man-ger' I was afraid of my parents' anger and became afraid of my own, which I suppressed for years, bottled up ever since being the target of it, even indirectly. I felt massive injustice at witnessing my parents' anger. Massive hurt and injustice. I wanted to burn down the house and run away. I became emotionally attracted to a certain amount of anger—until I married someone who I saw (IIRC) throw a teapot at someone in the ashram, where we supposed to be all love and peace. Later, my own 'anger management' had two rules: 1. never hit or harm anyone; 2. never break anything valuable. I did harm myself sometimes. Nowadays if I get mad (dropping something on the floor by accident, burning the dinner) I get mad and swear but I also laugh and fool about at the same time. But it takes a partner who 'gets it' to understand that! Owning manhood Although I really dislike 'bloke/lad culture', I don't mind being 'masculine' (whatever that means) when necessary. I think the first time I noticed this was with a colleague (sales staff). We used to go to see clients (I worked in the 'art' department drawing graphics) and she was trying to park. I had no qualms about her driving, but on this occasion the parking was going particularly badly for some reason. We got on really well, so I knew I could be direct with her. After a few minutes I said, with a smile ‘get out!’ so I could swap to the driver's seat. She laughed and made it clear that she was happy for me—on this occasion—to ‘take control’, and it felt like a very new experience for me. She let me know afterwards that she took it favourably, and told the others at the office. It was a bit weird because most of the time I think the female staff saw me (in the ‘art department’) as quite distinct from the ‘businessmen’ they dealt with most of the time, so treated me like one of them. Later, I was surprised and—I admit—flattered to discover that some of the staff found me attractive, which took a lot of getting used to. I still had an ‘asexual’ kind of inner self and it took many more years for me to ‘own’ my sexuality. Fucking hell that obviously hit a vein.

A: research/prepare how you might go about 'creating a beautiful soup or (other such dish/meal of your choosing) to eat with a loved one/s' sometime over the next remaining 7 days or so. You could cook for a lover, a sibling, a child, a dog… or a hidden aspect of yourself that would like to come out and play… D. I cooked for people in the past, especially proud of my miso soup, but that hasn't happened for some time I am only just rebuilding a lost life, so the foundations to offer are still in formation. I used to make large veggie winter stews for gatherings at the Winter Solstice. So this is an I used to and would like to again but my personal resources are low. Who will you invite and how will you invite them? myself that misses Japan- Sally because she will eat anything we cook What ingredients will you choose? miso, root vegetables, soba noodles, finely-chopped spring onions Where will you buy them from? a supermarket or the small independent greengrocer on Sherard Street- soba noodles from the health food shop How will you prepare them? what, the actual recipe? What do you want to gift to your guest? just the soup and some attention Where will you eat? at home What will you wear? whatever's comfortable What would you like to receive? just appreciation What anxieties to you have about how they might receive you? I don't know What risks can you take? I could ask one of my daughters or even both What is the worse thing that could happen? they cancel at the last minute or are way too late What is the BEST? everyone likes it and enjoys the evening- it's relaxing and cosy How can you make this a truly transformational encounter? I don't know yet, it may or may not happen naturally!

7 areas/actions/steps in your life, big or small, to work on ‘transforming’ furtherAreas to Transform although this reads more or less like my TODO list so not sure I'm on the right track… although this is off the top of my head so perhaps these are actually the things I want to transform: time/resource/attention management start sorting out my dad's stuff sell my camper van : -( either move house or fix it upmake 3 days a month free for art/techstop feeling 'on call' unfocussed anxietyget married Missing my own self Nostalgia for previous lives The band 'Daughter' has been timely. This popped up on the iPod the day I was thinking about the process below, and although it's on a current favourite album, on this day I listened with fresh ears and it gained new meaning. I wish I could post the video but here's the link to a beautifully melancholy live version instead. Daughter: New Ways I’m trying to get out Find a subtle way out Not just cross myself out Not just disappear I feel as if I've had another life, in fact 3-4 other lives, during my one lifetime and somehow, moved on from them as I've changed, or gradually forgot myself while adapting. I now miss myself from my own relatively mid-recent past. I lost track and need to spend a lot of time bringing those things back into my current life, I withdraw into sorting through stuff. What do I bring into now, what gets dumped, what will become part of a permanent me? Changes in software over time and in my computers mirror this. I always thought of my laptop as temporary but it's been my main computer for years. My old iMac desktop can't run the latest OS, yet has software (pre-subscription Photoshop, Illustrator, even, at one point but no longer, HyperCard) I can no longer run on my laptop. So my digitised life is split in two, one anchored by the inertia of neglect and abandonment (mine and by companies), and the other by the urge to build anew. So I have short bursts when I sort files, bring them across, putting them or re-making in more future-proof formats that don't depend on what a company decides to do. Like plain text, web formats (independent of online services) image formats that don't die, etc., but more complex things are harder maybe svg and other formats that will always be computer-readable in the future. In doing this, I re-find things about myself I had forgotten or even lost, valuable things I've put time and myself into, then just moved on. I want some of it back, because I now recognise them as part of my own self, a self I've abandoned. This all reads very much like the 'me' generation, obsessed with identity and self-expression, careless about community or ultimately about the lives of others. I'm not sure where I stand, but it's not there. From a post by one of my daughters I recently read about the Xennial micro-generation (born 77-83) between the Millennials and Gen-X. I too feel 'between' categories, between the end of the hippies and the start of the grunge era. But I'm always mutating and hate to look back (especially musically!!) too many new good things always happening! Equinoxes (between, midway-point, overlooked) are far cooler than solstices (extremes, popular). IMHO. And here's my actual eldest daughter and my youngest daughter

Placeholder (My Big Fat Journey): This has become a very timely mega-journey and I can't rush it. I'm chipping away, bear with me because I need time for this to grow and be filled out/revisited/added to! I spent a lot of time thinking about my shifting network of friends, acquaintances, colleagues. I thought about drawing a map of them, with their names as initials. Then I realised that there are a few core friends, and some extended/shared family members who are kind of permanent. Then I didn't want to include any clues, so I simply drew them out: The shifting of friends as I and they mutate, grow and change- My need for a map or categorical list of my contacts, to help me understand myself. networking with our own many selves the above as a mirror for social needs we are actually different selves across time, and reaching our goals requires getting them to cooperate—Tiago Forte (yet another confident self-promoter on Medium), 24 May 2017, Productivity for Precious Snowflakes: a Mood-First Approach to Knowledge Work. The lists below are apart from my intimate relationship and expanded family, which have become central, as represented in the picture. The ones who represent the Strength of Weak Ties are marked (SWT), except they weren't weak ties, just gateways to other networks. Oldest friends: Pete, school best friend now in touch again Sally, known for years opened other networks (SWT)- Jo, knew from work, writer, long periods of silence- Valerie, from Art CollegeSoul-sharing friends (dead): Mary- Paula- FranCurrent friends: Graeme- Alex- Styx (from music) Friends from music: Chris Conway (SWT)- Ben Daglish- Kate Rounding- Andy Martin, originally a work colleague (SWT) Outliers who now know no-one else: Jo (in oldest friends) - Jayne (ex-partners as friends) Former important friends: Jos (Joscelyne), first person I met in Melton (SWT) - Fiona, opened up vast Nottingham-based network (SWT) - Kindy, from above- Fred, from above, married Kindy- Jackie, first long-term partner after marriage, got me enjoying life, Relationships:First real kiss at 17, from my schoolfriend's elder sister (25) who was engaged. After that we hung out with my friends and messed with each other a lot, but she kept the final boundary in place. Every single relationship changed me, some of them a lot. Every one was valuable, although a few were very challenging and mostly from fear and some cowardice in facing the likely reaction I didn't communicate well enough or soon enough how I was really feeling. Trying to make sense of too much, I have listed my relationships in the past, and have a folder named (to my embarrassment) ex-files to keep what I value and personal mementoes, as well as to jog me into awareness about how I treat others or how I let them treat me. Until about 16 years ago, when I think began to know myself a bit better, or when I wanted stability above all, or when I had been hurt/disappointed or had hurt/disappointed another one too many times, probably from a difficult and then-unresolved combination of: over-identifying (co-dependency) - over-adapting though wanting to be loved- losing myself meeting the needs of another too passively- too much quiet eagerness to not rock the boat/rattle the cage- (early on) letting my obsessions become controlling- being attracted to difficultyI am still afraid or nowadays at least aware of my own ability to hurt and to be hurt, but that doesn't prevent me from loving and being loved. Being terrified of facing that which I know will cause pain in another (and secondarily hurt to myself) even to the point of self-denial but causing pain by failing to face it adequately or in a timely way is a trait I never want to repeat. My father's persistent admonition to not upset anyone had gone really awry. I might as well have been brought up with Japanese manners: yes: はい = I will consider your request- yes: I would love to but…  in other words = no いいえ. I felt at home yet at sea during the 10 days I spent in Japan, and missed it so much when I got back to the UK. I made proper miso soup almost every day for more than a year. I always enjoy wandering alone in another country although I have twice been one of the first arrivals at a dead person in the street (Bordeaux, with a previous partner and Lisbon) an experience that haunts me even now but Japan was in a class of its own regarding the degree of harmonious experience. OFC that's what some would think you'd expect, in a culturally-stereotypical way, but then neither did I really get to know anyone, although I did talk with the crown prince for 20 minutes about British canals. Both me and my partner visited Japan at a time of disaster: I left days before the Kobe earthquake, she was there when the tsunami wrecked Fukushima. Friends when bringing up children some last, some don'tSeeing middle-class mothers with their screaming, unreasonable toddlers (OFC they are, they don't know restraint at that age, that's our job!) in Clarendon Park, attempting to drink coffee and have a conversation, trying to be themselves again, clawing back some adult time away from the constant need to be on call to their children, the shock awakening that it's not easy and they can't just carry on as before. The lies of the marketing and social pressure around 'babies'. Maintaining a 'civilised' middle-class demeanour in the face of their children's out-of-control behaviour. Too cultured to shout GERREA NAAAH!!!  as their offspring race around the place, they simply apologise to the café owner and people nearby, who smile and say it's okay and coo and again smile sympathetically. If it gets too bad, they just take the child home, while it is crying. I recall a similar network of shared child-rearing, keeping parents sane and in touch when they became overwhelmed and tired. And drinking wine at dinner parties because that was the fastest way to switch off and remain sociable. For me: meditation groups with our eldest daughter asleep in a carrycot. Staring into her wondering and curious gaze at birth, compared with the later tensions and connections/disconnections of relating as an adult. The delight of communication when children start to learn about the world, and taking them on adventures in nature. The differing qulaity of two children, highlighted in understanding that they need to learn how to read in very different ways. The alarm at the way some other parents talk to their children, or fail to relate to them. As an extension of Alice Miller's (<- that's two links) insightful observation about the enlightened witness (at least one person, not necessarily [a] parent, who loved them or cared about them but was 'unable to protect them' from… abusive or neglectful parent or parents), perhaps even a knowing smile from an adult even a passing stranger to a child suffering at the hands of an adult, can provide an opportunity to realise they do not have to accept this as 'normal' or 'acceptable'; even hopefully provide a tiny foothold so they begin to climb out of the trap they're in. If someone is shouting at their child unreasonably, smile knowingly, empathically, at the child (without the parent seeing, unless you want to get shouted at too). I've done it. It's very small, but it just might make a difference. The influence of network research on meThe importance of interarchies: the web isn't a hierarchy, it's an interarchy (<- from the text in that software for connecting to servers, when it first came out) Pioneering research that changed my world-view: Duncan Watts, Six degrees of separation Mark Granovetter, The strength of Weak Ties (mind-opening) Robert Axelrod, The evolution of co-operation. The slides and references in my art-tech presentations about modelling art co-operation that start here about this. Yes, I'm passionate about research sometimes.

This is all going somewhere of its own making, and I feel as if I'm on a journey, and yesterday and the day before it was actually quite profound. I felt as if I was re-owning the who I really am. ---A big ask on this day and I could not face it at first, so I'm late but will now start. I've been depressed quite deeply on and off for a few days and could focus on very little. Earthly anchors: David Charles William Everitt Leicester 21: 4524 March 1952 Vera May Hill (married: Everitt) William Arthur Everitt My horoscope: a symbolic anchor on the planet, frozen at birth. Prelude (that's how I see it) Heathcliffe. But I like Running up that hill. You must like Kate Bush… one of the small numbers of real individuals in music. I get the story, a bit, though I don't really have a good memory for novels. Task one Then listen to this, whilst reading this- I can't listen to music with words and read, so I did one after the other. Got to dance: feels like a threat to an introvert. Obviously Red Shoes take away control. I was in my late 30s before I could dance really. It was a lot easier at dance parties at the Marcus Garvey in Nottingham or at an illegal rave near the A1 because with 90s dance music no-one judged you at all and everyone was welcome. It was wonderful. J was my partner for over 3 years and helped me express myself outwardly and not be afraid in clubs. I danced like a mad person to my friend's band when we went to see them. I can't do this now, I'm too ill. She-Bear: in one of the most remarkable dreams I ever had I was in a polar bear den with the polar bear mother. We emerged after hibernation and I felt completely safe. I really felt I was there in the dream, it was hyperreal and the feeling of closeness and total empathy persists. Your mapping from the page to the space in the PDF looks like the Great Bear constellation, which has huge significance for my private esoteric self. I would have found this performance intimidating because I find confrontation difficult. I feel all the tension between the different characters and almost feel it's personal, either aimed at me or I am living out my own inner conflicts. But that's how drama works. Task two. 1listen to this with your eyes closed, hands over heart and breathe. When the song ends, go out and walk somewhere without plans… for at least 5mins ‘away' and 5mins back to ‘home’. Extend the journey if you like but notice where you are when you reach your ‘turning point’. This track starts with what sounds like Alice Bailey's voice (her brief biography is in this video) reading the Gayatri mantram, which threw me into a completely other place, based on my past and confidential present. Confidential because most of my colleagues at uni have a rational world-view that edits out anything a bit woo-ey and the New Age has become so debased it's a joke, and because of that I too edit it out. But the founders are different, and I feel at home with them. Alice Bailey was a former Christian evangelist who turned Theosophist and became a writer of esoteric books intuitively 'dictated' by a mysterious individual known as 'The Tibetan' (see the biog video above). The Lucis Trust has a page on the Gayatri. I gave a talk on her life some years ago to the Leicester Theosophical Society I know her work well and have lived with it since I was around age 17. I have more on this but rarely share it outside that group, with which I now have little contact. It all reminds me of the women I grew up around, some of who had lived through that period, most notably Mary Swainson (Leicester University page on her funeral), who became a close and very dear friend until she died at the age of 100 over a decade ago (my counsellor knew her well too). This is all deeply crucial and formative for me, and I spent many years in the company of such people, and in conversation with Mary, including letters in which we shared our adolescent poetry! She was a kind of guardian for troubled (and sometimes emerging young) people, and a guide to them, but in our contact we rapidly outgrew that role when I was in my 20s and formed a deep bond. Task two. 2When walking listen ‘inside' your body and recall your own birth-day (or one of them) perhaps the threshold of becoming an ‘adult’… or 30 or 40 or 50 or 60 or 70I forgot to do this because I can't recall a single birthday apart from the last, where I'd already agreed a 'present amnesty'. I find birthdays a bit stressful unless I can do what I want, which is what I usually do, and I don't like the pressure of thinking about other people's birthdays. If I care for them I hope it is evident on other days, and I may or may not send a card/present. Sounds harsh but it's how I feel, and I don't mind being treated the same way. The dominance of the decimal number system means stupid cards with supposed 'landmarks' just because they end in a '0' or a '5'. I don't like it at all. These invented thresholds when we are supposed to change? How about prime number birthdays? or ones divisible by 3 or 9? And why the Sun? Why not a Jupiter or Saturn return birthday (approximately every 12 or 28 years) or even Mars (every 2 years) celebrating what those planets symbolise in mythology? Dane Rudhyar (I have his biography, written by a DMU colleague) outlines the 84-year cycle of the planet Uranus, as suggesting major points in a life. The Sun return is the mainstream birthday, the one everyone recognises. I ranted. What happened is below, but here, about a birthday, I can only throw in what I recall… how did you feel? free from obligation or pressure- how do you feel now as you walk in your body now, in the moment in this time? in touch with something profound and fundamental to me- what moves within and outside of you? Air, spirit (for want of a better word, really) and the birds singing at the midpoint- How does it move? It is still and constant- Where? everywhere I am, and probably also where I am not- How do you know? I just doTask two. 3Have a conversation between you ‘now’ and your younger self ‘then’ what do you say? I am now what you were then, you will forget, snd then remember and forget again and remember and the rememberings may last longer when you finally learn to hold firm and be honest with yourself at whatever apparent and real cost under pressures that are not yours. At some point you will remember forever and no longer drift away from yourself. Is that what we are all moving towards? Or just me and other people I know? Task two. 4When you get back home please share your ‘walk' story Before, After, Beyond. <rant>Evernote? Where is the fucking picture I put in from my phone?? WHERE??? I can see it in the preview look!! Over there!! <- Sort your software out NOW!! I get really mad when software has bugs. We deserve better. But Alice, none of this is your fault, just saying : -) </rant> Here is what came: I don't look for anything, it comes to me - the smell of animal scent - small trees trying to root yet reach for light, because I let them, but they cannot stay, except for F's oak tree. I want to accelerate time so the is the only tree, but the neighbours probably won't want it. People in the midlands hate trees. I have such a gardens front and back, but 7 trees of various kinds, including a cherry with beautiful striped bark, nestling next to a lilac where I threw a cherry stone not so long ago. the garden is a small wild place, with a little tailoring- I want animals and plants to be at home here- every neighbour within sight has a different idea of what a garden is but most like to prune nature a lot, mow it all the time, make I'm doing SOMETHING noises with machines in it or put decking or paving over it- I hate barbecues. Hate them. But I will eat from them if a guest, politely, so as not to offend. I belong to many but choose to be with one- there was no turning-point, other than the in/out-pause-out/in like breath- the dusk is a turning-point between day/night, the time for quiet contact of some kind. Blackbird song echoes in the dusk air, transports me- midpoints are portals- my body is not it, my sense of a self dissolved into others and the natural world is where I am anchored, where I regenerate- the confidence of knowing that level of inner peace that depends on no-one and nothing- 'trying' to be 'mindful' is a bit funny to me. Why try? If we're being ourselves honestly and completely does it come naturally, without thinking about it? My spiritual mothers? Having watched the Alice Bailey biography video and the start of another but far less compelling so-called 'New Age'-ish video (about 'free energy' and the 'torus as a universal form' why do people with 'the answer' put themselves centre stage, however benignly?) I recall the women at the heart of the early New Age, people with a big influence: Edna Harrison (or is it her friend Ruth that is 'Harrison', and Edna had another surname?): early mentor, free educator, meta-mother, guide to good creativity- Mary Swainson: guide, friend, loved one, deeply respected one. Alice Bailey: influencer, lifelong obsession, nothing like me so what do I find there?

Playing a ‘character’ or playing with ‘oneself’… I had a very sobering experience when my actual physical chest started to hurt after getting killed (virtually) in the game (from being too incautious and inexperienced, and panicking). It was so severe I had to lie down, take Nitromin, and sleep for a bit. I've had previous episodes out of the blue, but never synced so closely to a virtual world like that. Mirror neurones empathising with my character's fate… A virtual journey and a real cardiac episode I want what I am on the inside to become the outside. That, in a sentence, is it! What propels you forward? Having a goal that depends on other people, a strong will like water thaT flows around obstacles…

We're on our own, with each other. SOMETHING IS DEFINITELY HAPPENING! Change is occurring and this reflection is a catalytic part of the process. Instagram Whatsapp Nature. Feelings. Space. Hands touching hands. Taxi Driver. Time and space. Honesty touches. Quietness. Stillness. Being alone. His-tory. They touch because he leans…

Dave: OMIGODICANTKEEPUPITSALLCOMINGOUTLIKESICK… good I like hearing it we have 11 months to refine…;) Mediation as an extension, not a replacement for ‘touch’? YES! The Joy Division line Touching from a distance, closer every time (a search for which brings up promotional posts about a 'connection bracelet', although my lyric remembering is faultily creative see below), Ian Curtis as the philosophically-conflicted creative (I read his biography, of that title). It's from Transmission (so long ago now. I looked and dressed a bit like the guitarist in this live version, where you can see Ian Curtis' feelings) I love the imperfection the lack of concern over style and the urgent need to get his emotions out. That was their initial extrovert 'hit' BUT another one of his really introvert melancholy songs I mean THOSE FUCKING WORDS hit me in the GUT. I'm including this because it was the first music to ever really get my in-between generation (too young to be a hippy, too introverted to be a snotty pissed-off punk). Passover This is a crisis I knew had to come, Destroying the balance I'd kept. Doubting, unsettling and turning around, Wondering what will come next. Is this the role that you wanted to live? I was foolish to ask for so much. Without the protection and infancy's guard, It all falls apart at first touch. Watching the reel as it comes to a close, Brutally taking its time, People who change for no reason at all, It's happening all of the time. Can I go on with this train of events? Disturbing and purging my mind, Back out of my duties, when all's said and done, I know that I'll lose every time. Moving along in our God given ways, Safety is sat by the fire, Sanctuary from these feverish smiles, Left with a mark on the door, Is this the gift that I wanted to give? Forgive and forget's what they teach, Or pass through the deserts and wastelands once more, And watch as they drop by the beach. This is the crisis I knew had to come, Destroying the balance I'd kept, Turning around to the next set of lives, Wondering what will come next. Haha! I changed the actual lyrics further all the time in my head to closer every time. Reinventing my influences to suit my own experience? Dis-membering to Re-member? The 'courting' instead of genitals-first, helped by physical distance mediated by technology – this is really interesting – like to explore this ‘slowness’ in the use of technology… to slow down engagement rather than ‘fast track’ I have many emails shared during that time. I even thought about writing a programme with Fania that analyses them lexically to find the predominant vocabulary we used. But a bare word-count would ignore the weight of certain phrases. We took a long time over our communication in words. Really wanted to get to know the other person anyway, no matter what happened. Safer to share digitally – what do you mean by this? Does it need to become more ‘safe’? Yes, digital sharing is like a dry run. Touching from a distance. An ability to see how another responds without being trapped in a situation from which it's hard to escape in a physical encounter without awkwardness or hurt. Not that this was the intention. Mediated sharing feels intimate psychologically; face-to-face sharing can fail because of the visual/auditory superficials of a person/situation. The projection and the misunderstood cues. The nerves. The food particles in the teeth. The OMIGOD I can't believe I told you that now I think you hate me! The awkward silences before you know whether the other person appreciates quiet. The madness of trying to actually EAT AND TALK AND CHEW UP FOOD AND SWALLOW IT on an early date! All that. Avoided in mediated, written communication. Astral plane. The emoji characters in the charset astral plane, and the theosophists' idea of the astral plane as a parallel to social media. More please sound fascinating and a marriage of many aspects of your life and lives… I posted a slightly edited version of this on Tumblr and also invited two of my Facebook friends to comment on it (I name-thingied you in a comment). It's a fascinating topic; probably deserves a whole paper!

Alice: Boundaries: The picture of me and Fania! Lovely to be reminded. I have to admit we overcame a lot of boundaries: social, internal, logical and personal, to be together. But I have never been as close to anyone before this. Perhaps I wasn't ready. Fucking hell I took long enough to learn what I had to/wanted to learn to get where I am now. In counselling for years, years. Still am. My first counsellor killed himself, but I knew it wasn't anything to do with me. Colliding: The squashed toy cars look like that one of my dad's I flattened (green and black, pictures of passengers printed on the tin windows I think I held it's lack of realism against the poor thing). Later I used to visit railway lines with a friend and place things (mostly coins) on the track for the trains to flatten, then take them home. Another friend and I took it in turns to bring a toy when we met to smash up or burn. Were we both secretly angry and as children, unable to express the forbidden? Or just 'being boys'? Maybe for me I couldn't be too angry as a child because adults retained the power to keep my expression within tolerable boundaries. Now I am thinking of course of my own children and what I passed on (fail) or managed to not pass on (success). If it's that binary, which OFC it never is. Dave: I held back until I was well into middle age before I could describe myself as a 'man'. I even toyed with the idea of cross-dressing in a Grayson Perry-kind of way, or 'trying to be a girl', but the urge never really took hold. I parted my hair the wrong way in a mirror with my friend at around the age of 12 so I could 'look like a girl' and (under the influence of oxygen, which we used to make in his parents' garage and inhale) I put on his mother's fur coat. My father had homo-erotic dreams. I have a picture of both parents cross-dressed for a fancy-dress thing. My father had a crisis at some point, and my mother told me he probably fell in love with a man. Two of my partners were bisexual women, the first got me to wear makeup sometimes when I went out. I like being in an 'equal' role physically as well as psychologically. I was raised by women: I used to leave my parents in their flat on the ground floor and go upstairs to 'live' with my 'aunties' who shared a large flat. The older had false teeth that clacked when she talked. Crashes… This needs working with – replay – toy cars collisions – Dad. I want to ‘collide’ on this… One day my older aunt came to collect me from my parents' downstairs flat to show me a van full of bread that had hit a lamp post just around the corner. There was squashed bread on the road, and I was fascinated by the 'disruption' (fashionable word) from the normal. I was obsessed with cars and could name them just by listening to the tone of the exhaust. I’d love to hear this story from the perspective of Day 8… fascinating… What a naive fool I was, unprepared for my own sexuality. Anger – man – ager – anger Later, my own 'anger management' had two rules: 1. never hit or harm anyone; 2. never break anything valuable. I did harm myself sometimes. Nowadays if I get mad (dropping something on the floor by accident, burning the dinner) I get mad and swear but I also laugh and fool about at the same time. But it takes a partner who 'gets it' to understand that! Calm? Both my youngest daughter and my friend and programming co-developer told me that its' a surprise when I get mad (it never lasts longer than about a minute or two, mostly less), because I'm so calm all the rest of the time. It always feels safe to me to let off steam (swearing at the news) but I know other people might not get it and feel disturbed or even take it personally. Or just not want to be around. That's why it's important for me to be with people who understand me on all levels, enough to know, to see past the surface, to see the big picture. Under the pearl earring

Ingredients: Myself that misses Japan and Miso Soup. Sally who will eat anything. My daughters. Maybe both. Risk that they may not come. or cancel. or be late. Just appreciation. Love your image of the Creative Process!!! I identify most with the 'Panic and Doing all the Work while Crying!! 😃

I am already a butterfly but my wings have holes and dust. A moth eaten orange jumper shed but loved. Fuck off!  to everything that makes demands on my time, my resource, my energy. Let me fuck off and give me time/space to transform! A orange jumper? Moth eaten orange? After so long I feel I'm coming in from the cold… Maybe even my wings are healing a bit? The inner world is a most powerful place. Beautiful music… Moving. Feet on old floorboards… ‘The feeling is that I'm no longer an impostor, I was there then and I'm still here now. I need to really OWN this. In the late dance music era, I ran a group with art, drumming, DJs, complementary therapies and tarot readers and a chill-out room all in one building, in separate rooms. I was proud to have been part of it. I'm beginning to see that I do many things, not just one, and that is SEEN. And valued. And loved. About you.

I cannot turn round, it is so intense. Unfed and unrealised, the feeling fades within a year or so. I begin to hate my inaction, and feel despair at the fear and hesitation in me, and start to withdraw from life in general. This withdrawal lasts a long time. and get drawn in… she can't and smiles faintly, sympathetically. So there is no we. Next day I go in determinedly alone, knowing I am alone by choice and by the acton of my own will. I am 18 and still a bit removed from everything. But I have sex for the first time. I start my first relationship, that lasts for over 3 years. I start to be able to become p/art of a we.

This is all going somewhere of its own making, and I feel as if I'm on a journey, and yesterday and the day before it was actually quite profound. I felt as if I was re-owning the who I really am. It was a lot easier at dance parties at the Marcus Garvey in Nottingham or at an illegal rave near the A1 because with 90s dance music no-one judged you at all and everyone was welcome. It was wonderful. Your mapping from the page to the space in the PDF looks like the Great Bear constellation, which has huge significance for my private esoteric self. I would have found this performance intimidating because I find confrontation difficult. I feel all the tension between the different characters and almost feel it's personal, either aimed at me or I am living out my own inner conflicts. But that's how drama works. Based on my past and confidential present. Confidential because most of my colleagues at uni have a rational world-view that edits out anything a bit woo-ey D this must be integrated, rewritten, rethought I think!?! —I'm only wary here because I don't know how to frame this and maintain the privacy of my esoteric self in the face of the predominant rational world-view, to which I also subscribe. The two are not in conflict for me internally, but they do not inhabit the same space in my everyday personality. This is all deeply crucial and formative for me, and I spent many years in the company of such people, and in conversation with Mary, including letters in which we shared our adolescent poetry! She was a kind of guardian for troubled (and sometimes emerging young) people, and a guide to them, but in our contact we rapidly outgrew that role when I was in my 20s and formed a deep bond. how did you feel? free from obligation or pressure- how do you feel now as you walk in your body now, in the moment in this time? in touch with something profound and fundamental to me- what moves within and outside of you? Air, spirit (for want of a better word, really) and the birds singing at the midpoint- How does it move? It is still and constant- Where? everywhere I am, and probably also where I am not- How do you know? I just doPeople in the midlands hate trees. I have such a gardens front and back, but 7 trees of various kinds, including a cherry with beautiful striped bark, nestling next to a lilac where I threw a cherry stone not so long ago. the garden is a small wild place, with a little tailoring- I want animals and plants to be at home here- Mary Swainson: guide, friend, loved one, deeply respected one.

Alice: thank you so much for this image, now I know what I looked like in my first few moments after being born! It moved me and is quite an amazing image to take in… so many things (short stories, feelings, entire life approach, etc.) seem to be related to this initial state I was in, and all my life I've held it within me. The egg. My egg. My protection and gradual introduction to the world. Also, please never feel pressure or responsibility to respond. For me, it's enough for now to just get stuff out. Revisiting later, maybe. Dave: Dear rare and wonderful caulbearer… the male born behind the veil… what a beautiful unusual occurrence… fewer than 1 in 80, 000 births according to wiki! An egg waiting to hatch ‘inside’ ‘outside' the womb… Lagging – sounds like it could also be, or become, a ‘computer programming term’ like [late] developer… I never understand, we don't follow any rules, but there's something deep in Senegal tells me that we never, ever should.… how strange and wonderful that I then posted that film about ‘beside'… by Trinh-ti Mi Ha before I read your post today… Senegal – let us explore any significance of this if any…

This has become a very timely mega-journey and I can't rush it. I'm chipping away, bear with me because I need time for this to grow and be filled out/revisited/added to! Fingerprint splurges and networks connecting… Shifting networks… Colourful morphing connections… Love this sounds fascinating I need to look it up! we are actually different selves across time, and reaching our goals requires getting them to cooperate—Tiago Forte (yet another confident self-promoter on Medium), 24 May 2017, Productivity for Precious Snowflakes: a Mood-First Approach to Knowledge Work. Gateways to other networks… Every single relationship changed me, some of them a lot. The ex-files. over-identifying (co-dependency)- over-adapting though wanting to be loved- losing myself meeting the needs of another too passively- too much quiet eagerness to not rock the boat/rattle the cage- (early on) letting my obsessions become controlling- being attracted to difficultyI felt at home yet at sea during the 10 days I spent in Japan. disco soup. Both me and my partner visited Japan at a time of disaster: I left days before the Kobe earthquake, she was there when the tsunami wrecked Fukushima. A similar network of shared child-rearing, keeping parents sane and in touch when they became overwhelmed and tired. And drinking wine at dinner parties because that was the fastest way to switch off and remain sociable. Meri meditation groups with our eldest daughter asleep in a carrycot. Staring into her wondering and curious gaze at birth, compared with the later tensions and connections/disconnections of relating as an adult. I LOVE THIS I like 'Alice Miller's The Drama of Being a Child’ If someone is shouting at their child unreasonably, smile knowingly, empathically, at the child (without the parent seeing, unless you want to get shouted at too). I've done it. It's very small, but it just might make a difference. Links to follow up in Phase 2…

Death 1. I am about 1. My friend Alan died. A car hit him. Me and my friend cycle to his house and sit on our bikes. We say to each other Alan's not there any more. We feel very matter-of-fact. We carry on. Without Alan. Death 2. Beatrice dies in a boating accident. Before we would meet and hang out, a close group. Everytime I walk past it I wonder what actually happened? how did she die? why did it happen? surely someone could have prevented it? We carry on. Without Beatrice, or a place to meet up. Death 3. My father is showing me my Grandad's body. Look, Grandad's not there any more. I can see that he isn't. This is just a body with no relation to the Grandad I knew. This moment is changing me, and the way I see death. Death 4. My friend dies of complications after breast cancer. My first soul-mate. I feel sad we did not meet up nearer the day of her death. She's okay with it and didn't want me to see her like this. I wept when I got the news. A first for a personal bereavement. Death 5: My cat is in my arms as the vet injects him. (Terminal Liver Failure IIRC). I look into his eyes, the eyes that go gooey with huge pupils as he looks up at me nestled in my armpit under the covers, in bed, when I lived alone. My ex asked me to look after him because she kept moving house and he hated it and ran away. So he grew up with me. When I get home I cry. My partner at the time understands and I appreciate that. Death 6: I am about 5 or 6 (I think) and crying uncontrollably. It's after the Disney film Old Yeller. My parents don't know what to do with me (It's okay, it's only a film). I let it all out and don't hold back. All that crying I had no excuse for before. The film has opened the floodgates and now I'm free to cry as much as I want to and I do. Death 7: To me, animals feel equal, emotionally, to humans. My doctor tells me he wept more over his cat than his father. I am identifying my father's body. On the floor, next to his bed, covered for modesty by officials. I know I have to cry. I wait and it comes. Not so intense. Just some regret and sadness that today was going to be the first time I visited him for some time. It felt like 'appropriate' grief for an 'appropriate' amount of time. After a while I go back downstairs and tell them what they want to know. Death 8: Hearing F's young children wailing with uncontrollable grief. Sobbing Mum!  at her funeral as the coffin goes through the curtains into the furnace. The memory even just typing and re-reading this brings tears to my eyes now. F was another soul-mate and we went for walks. She was a 'wise woman', qualified medical herbalist and we discussed alien abduction and invisible beings. She was only in her 30s and it wasn't even cancer. Just a stupid untreatable growth that crowded out her insides. So many people I knew died in the space of 4-5 years, including some I haven't mentioned. The feelings of a hollow gut. Of being 'gutted', really gutted, like someone has taken out part of your insides and there's a hollow. And the lump in my throat, the constriction of swallowing the grief because if I don't it might not stop.

I only ever change organically, never by trying. Having some definite destinations and journeys in mind makes things happen, though. My ex-wife used to tell me that I had Maslow's triangle upside-down: self-realisation at the expense of stability and material well-being. I've been trying to address that ever since… Continual dynamic equilibrium a bigger complex systems thing) is very different from balance… Jo? Pete? Placeholders at a place table. Maybe? Listening and liking genuinely. All my other friends gave up on him, but I think he's just scared or having other stresses that he channels into bigotry. A question… of perception…? Maybe.

Alice: I love the idea of a 'sulking tree'. Later, I used to go out and walk in places away from footpaths. I think that was me 'sulking' away from 'civilisation' and contemporary culture. And yes, feeling sorry for inanimate things: a projection, perhaps, because (for me) I could not bear the feeling that I was so sorry for myself, having to exist in a world (or dare I say a family, partly, although supportive in other ways) that seemed not to accommodate people like me. I tracked down the chicken/egg article and liked this (apart from the spelling which shouldn't matter but it does): They came exactly at the same time. It is a scientific fact that both the Chicken and the Egg are exactly the same organism; developing simoultaniously [SIC] through the process of evolution. Dave: OCD. Imprinting on a thing. I felt sorry for things, a cereal packet that became empty. Or a broken thing. Maybe I was that broken thing. Dave – I was always interested in the infinity of a ‘glucose’ packet – the packet on the table with a photo of itself on the packet on the table… with a packet on the table… I’ve looked for that packaging on google images and never found it but it lives within me always still… infinitely obsessed with a ‘thing’… I had anti-imprints, avoiding the chaotic adult world of outbursts and incomprehensible behaviour. I recall sitting at the top of the stairs and crying for so long. Eventually my mother took pity and came up. I can't recall what triggered this event, but there were a few. So I did not want to grow up. I hated the adult world. I think I still do. We are meant to be responsible and coherent, and I do my best but then need to avoid being in it when I am unable to meet those demands. Like now. Like the past two days. (Am so loving and getting you right now!) I wrote a story about running up the garden and sitting under a tree until no-one came and coming back again… rolling down the stairs in a laundry basket to crash into the closed bottom of the stairs ‘door ‘, when parents were having ‘friends over’… I still have the basket… case. I am at peace with my life, but lives outside this life, from sources not known to me, people I have no connection with, are noisy. Are noise. Late developer lagging. The adventurous child timeless inside sees… Blood Light 2012 (Solo Performance Piece and my ‘sulking tree’)

I have short bursts when I sort files, bring them across, putting them or re-making in more future-proof formats that don't depend on what a company decides to do. In doing this, I re-find things about myself I had forgotten or even lost, valuable things I've put time and myself into, then just moved on. I want some of it back, because I now recognise them as part of my own self, a self I've abandoned. Equinoxes (between, midway-point, overlooked) are far cooler than solstices (extremes, popular). Daughters… Musical, bright, beautiful and challenging… And here's my actual eldest daughter and my youngest daughter

Academic / Artistic Split. Sex / Love Split. Splitting Cixous. 'I might like to integrate this someday, but without risking intellectual ostracisation or the derision of my rational friends. ’- who decides what is more valid or not do we not need to challenge these false boundaries through integration… re-representation… I’ll do it with you! I appreciate the offer! However, I value the freedom from intrusion that my reclusive esoteric secrecy offers, so that also keeps me from 'going more public'. On my (confidential) related Twitter account I am not identified as an individual, because it's not about individuals and I don't want to become a focus of even slight public attention on this topic. ‘A vast, complex symbolic system that resonates with my inner life. ’Japan. Yes, and the wonderful integration with nature that's evident in some facets of Japanese cultureThis beach always feels prehistoric and timeless to me, and I feel part of that when I'm there. I love your 'strange and persistent calling’ diagram clues to academic/artistic engagement/marriage/integration systems… larger than the human brain… 'Learning all the time from everything. ’Purple is NOT violet! Violet is at the limits of human vision and hints at frequencies beyond our visual senses…

Day 1: The shared solitude of deeper feelings. Loving lists. Hating Lists. Loving numbers infinitely. Day 2: Rich imagery. Blood. Birth. Completely covered crisis. Waters. Egg. Self-contained psyche. Dig it out… it will be beautiful… Electronic randomness. Membranes. Obsession. Order. Collection. Classmate. Covered. Ceiling. Paint. Play. Nest. Parents. Being given away… Late night radio. Underneath the covers. Making and breaking. Realisation of why and how – now. Eat sleep play repeat. Survival code.