I stop making life choices for myself and make them for others until I realise this at the age of 24. I choose my company cautiously and need to protect myself from harm. I stop sleeping with women. I only have relationships with men. I want to keep Alex forever. Motherhood is a difficult, exhausting. My failures make me angry and aggressive. Loving so many people can be overwhelming. I become depressed. I can be violent. Support is good. I transform. Disengaged to ambitious. A high achiever. I find security in my independence.

At the end of her journey she is taught: 'Home is knowing. Knowing your mind, knowing your heart, knowing your courage. If we know ourselves, we are always home, anywhere' (Glinda, The Good Witch) Knowing ourselves allows us to bloom. Vanity can rot knowledge, bravery and love. Our seed of life should be nurtured to flower at home. 05 The Red Shoes. mp3

Oh my God! The journey I have been on… I sit on my sofa writing this response… I have conversed and connected with like-minded academics from Australia, Iceland, Germany and Croatia. This feels like a pivotal moment in my career. What's more, I sit on the sofa, next to my husband who has poured me a glass of wine and invited me back into my bed. The sofa may not stay here for long, the Peak District is calling us. An idealic family home. But for now, the sofa remains while our family dynamics begin to transform. Love is reborn, support and care flourish, we invest in our family together. My path ahead is without cracks it's new, untrodden, to be discovered. I am to be the provider encouraged in my work, not stifled. My children will be nourished by time with their Daddy not the school club providers. My husband has found himself as I have cared for myself. We are emerging from our cocoon of crisis 🐛🦋🌪👨‍👩‍👧‍👧❤️BEAUTIFUL. BEAUTIFUL. BEAUTIFUL. Melting into the sofa together held and transforming… Marie Alex Sophia Maisie

Red and Black lines and connections. Bubbles and circles and indentations and crossings out. You are on my radar too 😉… I intent to keep you there!!! 😃 I wonder how you would map yourself in relation to the participants in this project? yes I’ve been wondering this too and i think it will come… Everyone 'on my radar' has appeared there very recently as I've attended to myself. When I lost myself in motherhood and domestic life there was no one other than my children. No wonder I felt so alone. Re-found. You have re-found yourself… and are daring to reclaim your lost parts… selves… integrating them and making them hear you… I hear you too! 😃

As a Mum of two, working full time, making a special shopping trip for my soup was an achievement in itself. As usual, how I dressed didn't really get any thought. I bribed the children with sweets to behave nicely around the supermarket which worked. One that makes you larger and one that makes you small… transformational creatures, mushrooms and little girls… Jefferson Airplane -White Rabbit The vegetables softenedThe stock was madeThe spicy coconut milk-broth, bubbled The noodles cooked All of these separate ingredients transformed and unified. Together they left a more positive memory than when alone. I cooked. The food was good. I was proud. I shared my food to feed my children and myself. My husband came home earlier than usual. I fed him too. We talked communication transformation. The next day, the last bit of the soup I made for your research feeds me as I reconnect with my own research… The evolving speaking dancer. Caterpillar to butterfly. Butterfly to tornado. Alice, Dorothy, me. Transformational women finding themselves, finding being through the performance of narratives. A Dance.

Marie: All is golden… Pompoms and finger-knitting were favourites of mine. Follow the golden thread… The door we come in through is in Mrs Addnitt’s half. We hang our coats in Mrs Norgan’s half – on pegs near the messy area. We painted and glued here. We planted a lot of things – daffodils and collias. Beautiful calligraphy. Wild Child. Wild Woman. I could make people laugh, but then I’d be on my own. I thought I was an unwanted problem. The last moments of that last day transformed the way I thought about myself.

Ups and downs… Lumps and bumps… Depressions and Anger… Love and Hate… Always motionE-motion. Weather… Satisfaction with friendships and leisure time has transformed positively, very recently, when the satisfaction in my marriage was completely obliterated. But now, as my marriage starts to transform again, friends and leisure remain I must be more fulfilled. We might 'move to the country'. How will that effect the balance, the rotation, the ups and downs? I wonder what would matter in the life wheel of my children I imagine there's not so much at hand that they need to attend to. But, perhaps it's full of more hedonic intentions instead…? Would their wheels include…

Marie: The small fourth bedroom of our house. I watched two magpies build a nest in one of the oak trees in the garden. They worked together and they worked tirelessly, but they didn't lay their eggs in there. They built another nest in one of our fir trees on the other side of the garden more secluded. The same couple built 2 nests one with labour left empty and one with love full of life. At this point, I am concerned that our house will be like the nest in the oak tree. But my nest already has 2 beautiful daughters, it just needs a little more love. I wish you love, strength, honesty, courage and friendship XOakThe oak is the mightiest of trees and symbolizes strength and courage. The ancient Romans thought oak trees attracted lightening and thereby connected the oak tree to the sky god, Jupiter and his wife, Juno, the goddess of marriage. Thus, the oak is a symbol of conjugal fidelity and fulfillment. The oak tree was regarded by Socrates as an oracle tree. The Druids likewise ate acorns in preparation for prophesying. In addition, the Druids believed the leaves of the oak tree had the power to heal and renew strength. Photo courtesy of Philip Halling, Wikimedia Commons. Fir Tree One of the nine sacred woods of used for a sabbat fire the Druids held the fir in high esteem. It is a symbol of honesty, truth and forthrightness because of the way it grows on the straight and narrow. The trunk of the fir reminds us of a tall straight pillar of strength, a symbolic tower of truth. Grouped together, they are a symbol of friendship. This symbolism is furthered by the fact that firs are evergreens. As they never loose their green vibrancy they are a reminder of the life-long connections we share with our friends.

I love your appearing rolling languid blanket… SnUFFLE. snUGGLE. NOSEruffle. Hedgehog. Pink. Whit-e. Cosy. Angle. Grain. Camera. MoveMENT. Touch. Scrunch. Turn. nruT. Stop. Crease. Rest. Sniff. Breathe… Look. Hear. Ear. Eye. Sad. Blink. I Spy. Hair. Dark. Breathe. Breathing. Suffocate. Hot. Teeth. Smile. Reach out. Red. Neck. Piece. Upside down. Restless. Feckless. Distant. Spell. Eye. Hair. Mask. Sight. Shuffle. Anger. Stop. You STAR! Born…

Marie: Leaving a mark on my parents' lives, as I was the third child they conceived but only the first to survive. The maternal cocoon nurtures me with everything I need to the point where a sense of lack is still unknown to me. I am completely invested in becoming, with no awareness of time, only feeling and evolving. I am protected from the outside, but have no fear as my concept of world is defined the parameters of the inside. Even inside and outside are alien notions right now. There are no binaries here, only complete unity. Peace… bliss… unlimited time. Total care. Nurture. Holding. Nad again…: 'The body wrote then about its own birth, and the birth of its mother, and when its own children were born, of course, of course, about them. Oral drive, anal drive, vocal drive–all these drives are our strengths, and among them is the gestation drive–all just like the desire to write: a desire to live self from within, a desire for the swollen belly, for language, for blood (Cixous 891). The fat was gone, and in its place this other tissue, that later would be he. What I know now is that the body gets what the body wants. What I know now is that the body will tell its story, because if you censor the body [… then] you censor breath and speech at the same time (Cixous 880).’

Marie: Beautiful face looking up smiling. Cow sheep goat milk repulses me. However, I was completely fascinated by my own breast milk waking up covered in it. It made me feel very 'womanly' and richly productive! I like to touch… my husband's heart, but it won't let me in. DEEP PAIN. Knock knock who’s there… I am completely in touch with… exhaustion. I'm ill, I'm fighting, I'm struggling. It consumes me, but I can be calm and accept this time in the knowledge that time passes, things change and life, my life, is in a transient state of flux. My girls. My laughter and my power as a mother. It keeps me going. Woaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhh. YES. I am here. I have secret soft nestled ‘favourite pages…’ they are deeply mine… The past touches me like… a shove in the back pushing me towards the future towards the hope of tranquillity, contentment, and authenticity. This is the text from the above: The smell of milk, dew-drenched greenery, sour and clear, a memory of wind, of air, of seaweed (as if a body lived without waste): it glides under my skin, not stopping at the mouth or nose but caressing my veins, and stripping the skin from the bones fills me like a balloon full of ozone and I plant my feet firmly on the ground in order to carry him, safe, stable, unuprootable, while he dances in my neck, floats with my hair, looks right and left for a soft shoulder, slips on the breast, swingles, silver vivid blossom of my belly and finally flies up from my navel in his dream, borne by my hands. My son (Kristeva, Stabat Mater 141). Is theory more important than this? The smell of milk (dried, it is soursweet and will draw any baby to you, nuzzling and mewling), which resides alongside the Virgin Mother and the semiotics of milk and tears. The language of fluid. While the rest of this writing, the stories not of mothers and babies, but one mother and one baby, came out smooth and fast, as soon as I see or hear or write that word, theory, I slow. I am concerned with the placement of things. I do not have the sense of being free. But if there’s anything that should come from this vain attempt to answer Cixous, to write your self. Your body must be heard (880), it should be that freedom and theory, boundary-lessness, is where I reside. If anything should come from this, it is the knowing that theory is the most creative pursuit, and that creativity will always speak to theory. There are fewer divisions than any of us realise, and the leakiness of bodies, of this body, will get me there. The smell of this page is of lichor; a clean but heady smell, thick with old cells and a foetus’s breath. The smell of this page is of blood and saliva and milk mixed (the colour like rotten strawberries or the soaked pad at the bottom of your tray of supermarket mince). It is a smell that you will secretly savour, breathe deeply, and then long for lemon zest or the sharpness of coffee beans to send away that angelic fug. That milk and tears have a language of their own is undeniable. Kristeva says they are metaphors of non-language, of a ‘semiotic’ that does not coincide with linguistic communication (Stabat Mater 143) but what I know is that these fluids were the first language for my children. Were they the first language for me? Because it must be true: babies drink language along with the breastmilk: Curling up over their tongues while they take siestas–Mots au lait, verbae cum lacta, palabros con leche (Wasserman quoted in Giles 223). The enduring picture I have of myself as an infant is of a baby who didn’t cry, but my mother will tell you a different story, in the way that all of us do. She will tell you I didn’t smile until I was five months old (Soli and Jem were both beaming at three months). Born six weeks premature, my muscles took longer to find their place, to assemble themselves under my skin. She will tell you I screamed in the night, because all babies do. Is this non-language? Jem was unintelligible much of the time. I felt as if I was holding a puzzle. Three o’clock in the morning, having tried breastfeeds, a bath with Nick Drake’s Pink Moon, bouncing him in a baby sling on the fitball (wedged into a corner so that if I nodded off I would hopefully swoon backwards, and the wall would wake me), walking him around and around while rocking and singing, then breastfeeding again, and still he did not sleep, and still he cried and clawed at my cheeks and shoulders and wrists and writhed; I could not guess at what it was he needed. I had never been less concerned with the self that was me. I was all breasts and milk and a craving for barbecued chicken and watermelon at three in the morning because he was drinking every ounce of energy I had. I was arms and a voice. I was food. And then I learnt other things; about let downs and waking up in pools of the stuff. Wet. Everywhere. Lactating bodies tend towards anarchy (Bartlett 163). Any body will tend towards anarchy – there is so much to keep in – but there are only so many openings a person can keep track of, and breastfeeding meant a kind of levelling up, meant I was as far from clean and proper as I possibly could be (Kristeva, Powers of Horror 72). In the nights I was not alone. Caren could not breastfeed him, but could do everything else, and never said I have to work tomorrow, because she knew I was working too. During waking hours I watched him constantly for those mystical tired signs, which often were hungry signs, which quickly became overtired signs. There was no figuring it out. But Soli, with Soli, I knew. The language of babies had been sung into my bones.

Marie: My inner feminine is pissed off. Quite frankly, she’s has enough of the presumptive mis-judgements about her being the oppositional ‘half’ – the ‘other-half’ who should passively serve the needs and desires of masculine forces. I agree. Marie you are complete in all your parts whatever their ‘given’ labels (and by whom…) First our lost parts need to dance and integrate together as you well practice and to work for us first and then they need accepting by others!! We have to allow each other to grow.. to dance… to evolve lets drink to that! 😃 I’m a women with ambition, intelligence and curiosity. I am a women who cared to create new life. I am a woman who’s successful life felt happier in the company of my husband and I wanted to keep him as my own, for always. WOW! You are stronger than you know, deeper than you think, wiser than you feel… I see in you Marie strength and beauty not depression and repression… Your inner self is speaking VERY loudly and she is coming out to play! :)

The thought of transformation makes me feel exhausted at the moment it requires so much of me. I find the idea of transforming difficult. For me it implies change, a shift from one thing to something other. I don't want to be other. I want to accept and carry life with me, to enrich me… instead of battling with me and pinning me down. I HEAR you… X1… overwhelming feelings of anger, intolerance and aggression2… finding respect for my husband3… nurturing feelings of security in my beautiful daughters4… pursuing philosophical and creative curiosities5… staying open to those who are now 'on my radar' connecting with them empowers my sense of self, value and kindness6… my contribution as an artist and scholar

Saying YES! Together.

Marie: Attach-detach-imprint-encounter. Imprinting… feelings of belonging but not attaching… that ‘feels’ right. Self nurture. Mutuality of friends and shared respect. Laughter. Sunlight. Beer. We drank, we talked, we didn’t work – we laughed instead. We encounter… we co-create knowledge and understanding that imprints on our conception of self-other-world. A shared final encounter. They danced, connected, touched and embraced. They loved. Attached to a community of people that have shared and experience, a journey. They will move forward in life imprinted by the transformational exchanges they have encountered. She leaves before imprinting an unhelpful idea in the mind of ‘my Alex’, although we have been talking about him all night… They belong, but are not attached – that seems right.

I started using facebook when my parents left the country to live in Spain – it’s was my way of continuing to share my life with them. We also skype every couple of weeks. There are times when my Dad just asks me about all the things he’s seen me post and it stifles our communication because I have nothing more to say. He doesn’t imagine there is more than the social media profile he surveys. My Mum is completely unfamiliar with these technologies. Without my Dad as her facilitator, I have no way to reach out to her. I often need to be hugged by her. My husband is having an affair with his smart phone – she’s the first thing he turns to when he wakes up in the morning. He prefers her company to mine in the evening. But sometimes, a ‘liked’ post makes you feel interesting. Subtle. Sad. True. Heartache. You can walk but you can’t hide. You can Skype or you can drive… Get on yer bike? Go public. Fly! And. Breathe…

Like a lead, dead, heavy weight in the solar plexus. My uncle sexually assaulted me and for a long time I didn't tell anybody… just his daughter. He lived a lie, he died a liar. But what mark is left? The mark like a scar that doesn't die with them. But a scar is a permanent reminder that a nasty wound has healed a sign of strength even in silence. The Yellow Solar Chakra! How appropriate it that! It represents our identity self-esteem, inner power sense of responsibility… ‘The challenge of this chakra is to develop your inner power by being honest and at peace with yourself. Lion Pose… Roar like a lion…

Marie: She is good, idealistic, enthusiastic and warm-hearted. She is independent, curious, compaasionate and fair-minded. Music arts ego will a fertile imagination, are full of inspiration, and very emotional and are sensitive to those who are suffering. Adores research, inquiry, investigation. Looks for new ways to relate to others. The sign of Virgo is very body-aware, in general. Reliable, practial and trustworthy, self-effacing and kind. Some are quite shy in love, and easily intimidated on a sexual level. Virgo Moon a delight to be around. You are keenly aware of your need for relationships and for intimacy. People appreciate you for your tender heart and friendly, diplomatic disposition. Complex or mysterious partners are not as intriguing to you as simple and genuine ones. You will meet yourself (the darker side or inner demons) through your relationships, and it will be critical that you recognise it as your own material and not project it onto your partner. Mars in Virgo. A knack for handling a wide variety of tasks at once, and a tendency to take on perhaps too much at the same time. They will generally be open to experimentation, if only to feed their curiosity and to feel savvy. There's often a shy and humble side to Mars in Virgo in any area that involves putting themselves out there and letting go (areas ruled by Mars). She likes meeting friends, around a good meal and in a cordial atmosphere. ‘I'd climb in the case with them and disappear into a dream’

Marie: Hand on heart. I swear. I nurture. Myself. Inside. The skies are stormy. I step outside. The wind caresses my hair. I smile. What am I listening to? My eyes. My eyes light up. I give myself back to me. I hold you. The earth holds you. The grass is thick and crunchy green. Or is it corn. Golden corn. Walking through fields of gold… Nearby. Beside. To come… My inside is flying high! HI. Funky town plays inside… won’t you take me to funky town… Outside rain. Big turned up collars. Masculine and strong. Arrived. Life can be absurd. ‘… gotta move on… gotta move on… ’Soaked… hair flatterning back into a feminine shape. Softer. Sigh. Heading back is not as warm as walking away physically and emotionally. Head resting on a pink pillow. Refreshed. Awake. Glistening skin speaks. Eyes twinkle. Outside in. Day 1: Sadness. Attending to self. Support. Self permission. Heart. Heartache. Misjudgement. Aggression. Depression. Vulnerability. Isolation. Disconnect. (We need to do coffee or wine… 😃)

Oh my God! The journey I have been on… I sit on my sofa writing this response, having just returned from performing my PhD practice at a performance philosophy conference in Prague. I have conversed and connected with like-minded academics from Australia, Iceland, Germany and Croatia. This feels like a pivotal moment in my career. What's more, I sit on the sofa, next to my husband who has poured me a glass of wine and invited me back in to my bed. The sofa may not stay here for long, the Peak District is calling us. An idealic family home. But for now, the sofa remains while our family dynamics begin to transform. Love is reborn, support and care flourish, we invest in our family together. My path ahead is without cracks it's new, untrodden, to be discovered. I am to be the provider encouraged in my work, not stifled. My children will be nourished by time with their daddy not the school club providers. My husband has found himself as I have cared for myself. We are emerging from our cocoon of crisis 🐛🦋🌪👨‍👩‍👧‍👧❤

As a mum of 2, working full time, making a special shopping trip for my soup was an achievement in itself. As usual, how I dressed didn't really get any thought. I bribed the children with sweets to behave nicely around the supermarket which worked The children chopped the mushrooms a milestone for Maisie (3yrs) who safely used a sharp knife. The girls liked the squashy feel of the shiitakes. I recall the catapillar in alice in wonderland sitting on a mushroom and… one that makes you larger and one that makes you small… transformational creatures, mushrooms and little girls… The vegetables softenedThe stock was madeThe spicy coconut milk-broth, bubbledThe noodles cookedAll of these separate ingredients transformed and unified. Together they left a more positive memory than when alone. I cooked. The food was good. I was proud. I shared my food to feed my children and myself. My husband came home earlier than usual. I fed him too. We talked communication transformation. The next day, the last bit of the soup I made for your research feeds me as I reconnect with my own research… The evolving speaking dancer. Catapillar to butterfly. Butterfly to tornado. Alice, Dorothy, me. Transformational women finding themselves, finding being through the performance of narratives.

I never touch… milk it repulses me if IT touches me I need to be disinfected. However, I was completely fascinated by my own breastmilk waking up covered in it. It made me feel very 'womanly' and richly productive! I like to touch… my husband's heart, but it won't let me in. I am completely in touch with… exhaustion. I'm ill, I'm fighting, I'm struggling. It consumes me, but I can be calm and accept this time in the knowledge that time passes, things change and life, my life, is in a transient state of flux. I am completely in touch with me as mother and me as philosophy geek;)I have felt touched by… My friends who have cared for me with their words; their listening; and their small acts of kindness. I wish I had touched… I like being touched on… Anywhere right now! I swear I never touched… I left a mark on… I imagine I left the most significant mark on the lives of my parents, being the third child they conceived and the first to survive. I am touched every time… I like to touch base by… I like to touch base with… The past touches me like… a shove in the back pushing me towards the future towards the hope of tranquillity, contentment, and authenticity. How much am I in touch with me? Can I see your hands? I can't work out how to insert pictures you can explain it to tomorrow and hold my hand x

Although you haven't been able to see what I wrote yesterday, today's prompt really connects. Yesterday I spoke about leaving a mark on my parents' lives as I was the third child they conceived but only the first to survive. I can't imagine a more peaceful time and place than this. Suspended in warm fluid, never hungry and the need to take care, non-existent. The maternal cocoon nurtures me with everything I need to the point where a sense of lack is still unknown to me. I am completely invested in becoming, with no awareness of time, only feeling and evolving. I am protected from the outside, but have no fear as my concept of world is defined the parameters of the inside. Even inside and outside are alien notions right now. There are no binaries here, only complete unity.

The butterfly effect from the flap of a delicate wing comes a raging tornado. The tornado in The Wizard of Oz transforms Dorothy. She is transported, with her house and her dog to a new world of colour. She has her house, but she is not home home is with her family. She must get back home. Wearing ruby slippers, she follows the yellow brick road to find the magic that will take her home. On her journey, she meets a scarecrow, a tin man and a lion new friends who remind her of knowledge, bravery and love. At the end of her journey she is taught: 'Home is knowing. Knowing your mind, knowing your heart, knowing your courage. If we know ourselves, we are always home, anywhere' (Glinda, The Good Witch)Red shoes transform the life of another young woman in Hans Christian Anderson's fairytale 'The Red Shoes'. Her vanity finds her condemned to dance. The magical red shoes deny her will to return home. The transformation in this story is one of decay. Knowing ourselves allows us to bloom. Vanity can rot knowledge, bravery and love. Our seed of life should be nurtured to flower at home. Improvisation with childhood blanket: Saw this and thought about caterpillars

I notice how most of my extended family are off my radar and know that it's been that way for a very long time. Most of the structural 'holes' occur because there is structure/architecture in the connections between people closest to me. I wonder how you would map yourself in relation to the participants in this project? Everyone 'on my radar' has appeared there very recently as I've attended to myself. When I lost myself in motherhood and domestic life there was no one other than my children. No wonder I felt so alone. Thank you for this it's been insightful x

I am very clearly most fulfilled and satisfied by: MotherhoodResearchFriendshipsLeisure timeI'm least satisfied and fulfilled by: My home and gardenMy marriageMy familyMy workThere seems to be a balance between the ups and the downs, but I can't compromise any of them to further satisfy another. The positive aspects of my life wheel are necessarily so. It's funny how my ups and downs alternate as the wheel rotates a regular, routine pattern. Satisfaction with friendships and leisure time has transformed positively, very recently, when the satisfaction in my marriage was completely obliterated. But now, as my marriage starts to transform again, friends and leisure remain I must be more fulfilled. We might 'move to the country'. How will that effect the balance, the rotation, the ups and downs? I wonder what would matter in the life wheel of my children I imagine there's not so much at hand that they need to attend to. But, perhaps it's full of more hedonic intentions instead…? Would their wheels include: ComfortersCuddlesKissesToysCreative activitiesDays outHolidaysStoriesMusicSo much pleasure to attend to 😊 I can see why they're not always satisfied!

Since I saw you on Thursday, I have shared myself and my time with so many good friends. Thursday evening I went out for dinner with 3 women – mothers, who I have attached to over the last 7 years. We attached through the sharing of motherhood, working-motherhood. We hug, we care, we listen. On Friday, I met a friend and colleague for a drink to sort through some work-based concerns that need to be resolved. We are presenting our research as part of a philosophy and performance conference in Prague next month and as yet have no funding secured, no accommodation booked, no flights arranged! We drank, we talked, we didn’t work – we laughed instead. Our encounters arise out of our shared interest in philosophy and learning about the nature of being in this world. We co-create knowledge and understanding that imprints on our conception of self-other-world. But, before this meeting, I taught third year dance students their very last class at DMU. I saw their bonds with one another as they shared this final encounter. They danced, connected, touched and embraced. They loved. They were very much attached to a community of people that have shared and experience, a journey. They will move forward in life imprinted by the transformational exchanges they have encountered. Friday evening, I sat beside another friend (not my husband). Her facial reactions and my words co-create a narrative I am working on… We drink ‘posh’ wine although we usually have a pint of Guinness! She leaves before imprinting an unhelpful idea in the mind of ‘my Alex’, although we have been talking about him all night… On Saturday morning I watch my daughters dance side by side with their friends – they are not side by side with me – they are finding themselves as they co-create their performance. They belong, but are not attached – that seems right. On Sunday, I walk, talk and eat side by side another friend. We share a day in the Peak District leaving a trace of ourselves and our chat with each step we tread through the landscape. We learn about each other, we surprise each other and we feel close to one another. My family life feels distant and I take time in the expanse of space, to recuperate.

My full birth name is Marie Ann Hay. I was born naturally at 4. 35am on Tuesday 11 December 1979 in the Princess Alexandra hospital, Harlow, Essex. My mother is Margaret Ida (36yrs), my father is Andrew Murray (24yrs). Today is my birth-day. I am re-born, returning to my younger self because she works hard and deserves a happy future filled with love and care xI thought I knew where I was going, but I discovered a new path that shared a view I'd never seen before. Still walking. Finding peace. Giving myself back to me. Wet feet. They're walking me back, but my inside is flying high. Self-love. Hmm… BIG rain… not prepared for this, but not too bothered! Keep smiling. Life can be absurd… Heading back is not as warm as walking away physically and emotionally. I'm back. I found the younger me and gifted her with open eyes, looking forward. I hope you've enjoyed my walk. I took you with me and told you all about it along the way. Happy birthday xxx

Noticing me in my natal chart: curious people who love to learnAlthough generally easygoing, Sagittarius is a fire sign. This gives natives a generally quick temper… They're generally easy to forgive, however. After all, their direct, honest approach in life is admirable. Short description: She is good, idealistic, enthusiastic and warm-hearted. She is independent, has a taste for travel and freedom. She is curious and fair-minded. Weaknesses:… she is rebellious and sometimes tactless when offering opinions. You may be given to spending money impulsively. 402 Conjunction Sun NeptuneThere is an unmistakably dreamy, inspired, and sensitive side to you. A marked appreciation for music and the arts is present. The connection of Neptune with the Sun, which represents the ego and the will, certainly softens some of the hard edges that might be found elsewhere in the chart, adding a sensitive and spiritual dimension to your personality. You are naturally compassionate. It is so completely natural for you to accept that there is more to the world than what is before your eyes, that you tend to presume everyone must be spiritually-inclined. Of course, you come to realize that this is not the case at some early point in your life. Your attraction to spirituality and metaphysical subjects is usually marked. These aspects favor writers, artists, and musicians. You are sensitive to those who are suffering, although you are not usually taken advantage of. You are humanitarian and may have a special connection with animals. If other aspects and positions in the chart support it, you are not one to dominate others or assert yourself to the point of brashness. You have a fertile imagination, are full of inspiration, and very emotional all qualities that you may use on the professional level. You are not fond of superficiality, and are generally the first to spot pretense of any kind. You are passionate and can be intense. You have a hunger to experience more than just an ordinary life, and you can be quite ambitious. Some people with this aspect are perfectionists, demanding much from themselves and reasonable amounts of effort and honesty from others. These people express their affection for the people they care about in little, but practical, ways. They can be a little stiff when it comes to open, gushy displays of affection. Lunar Virgos are often shy with new people. However, when they are comfortable, they are anything but shy. More often than not, others can count on Moon in Virgo people. They are reliable and trustworthy. Above all else, Lunar Virgos are practical. Others turn to them for help and advice. In relationships, Lunar Virgos can be self-effacing and kind. Some are quite shy in love, and easily intimidated on a sexual level. Many are not very comfortable with their sexuality, but they aim to please nonetheless. The sign of Virgo is very body-aware, in general. If this awareness combines with a lack of self-confidence, Lunar Virgos can be too aware of the parts that make up the whole. This can lead to a tendency to be intensely self-critical. Once Lunar Virgos learn to come out of their shell, however, they can be earthy partners with a lot to give Lunar Virgos seem very interested in others' problems, for example, but can be quite cool and even unsympathetic in the long run. Their advice can seem hard to more sensitive folk; yet Lunar Virgos can be surprisingly delicate when faced with others' criticism. Virgo Moon people are generally busy and quietly happy when they have their lives under control. They aim for a simple existence, and are often quite content with very little. Many are early risers, ready to take on the day with enthusiasm. They scurry around, keeping busy and managing their life quietly and expertly. As long as their little world is manageable, Lunar Virgos can be a delight to be around. You are generally amiable and project a soft and yielding manner. You possess natural charm and you are highly imaginative and sympathetic. You can make an excellent mediator and go-between. You are keenly aware of your need for relationships and for intimacy. You have a well-developed respect for qualities typically associated with the feminine. People appreciate you for your tender heart and friendly, diplomatic disposition. Short description: She is frank, honest, full of vigor and ambition. She is strong-willed and powerful at work. She is a little hard on herself but, above all, on others whose capacity for action is not as greatSensual, the world of touch and smell is most appealing to you. Complex or mysterious partners are not as intriguing to you as simple and genuine ones. Certainly, you will learn much about yourself through your relationships, and you may not always like what you see. You will meet yourself (the darker side or inner demons) through your relationships, and it will be critical that you recognize it as your own material and not project it onto your partner. Mars in Virgo natives get things done--quite well! They have a knack for handling a wide variety of tasks at once, and a tendency to take on perhaps too much at the same time. Most Mars in Virgo natives are not particularly aggressive by nature. Although they can be a little hard-nosed and critical at times, they rarely resort to pushing others around. Still, an annoyed Mars in Virgo native can be difficult to be around! Arouse their anger and they turn into complaining, over-critical nags. Generally, these natives don't make themselves nuisances, so this stage is unlikely to last for very long. It is a sensitive position, however. It doesn't take much to make these people nervous. Mars in Virgo people are quite protective about their system for getting things done. In a sense, their performance in bed is similar to their work. These people want to be good at what they do. They will generally be open to experimentation, if only to feed their curiosity and to feel savvy. There's often a shy and humble side to Mars in Virgo in any area that involves putting themselves out there and letting go (areas ruled by Mars). But experience and knowledge are important to these natives, and this drive generally wins over their natural reticence. She likes meeting friends, around a good meal and in a cordial atmosphereAdores research, inquiry, investigationSometimes blunt and irritableLooks for new ways to relate to othersShe will leave the family home reasonably young. Likes liberty, wants a life that is outof-the-ordinary, and certainly one that does not correspond with mum and dad'sMarriage doesn't bring luck, honors come as she imagined they might.

Today I met you all in your stories and as I read through them, certain parts leapt out and grabbed me, and I have pasted them below clashing, colliding and encountering each. Word. Form. Person. Image. Story. I invite you today to steal some of these words and images and make them your own. Like a magpie… pick out the 'shiny things' that resonate for you… cultivate them, dialogue with them… make them your own… change their shape, colour tone, hue… I want you to take them back into your nest and add to them, reimagine them, rearrange them like ‘furniture'. Place them where you would like them to be. Sit or lay in one of the objects, look down at a view from on high and tell us what you see sea? Breathe in the air what can you smell. Taste the food. What music is playing? What conversations and sounds to you hear? You have never as yet encountered one another except for my loose ‘introductions and mentionings’ in 'group noticings’ so I invite you to meet here in this virtual space and write into the imagined spaces of each others stories expand and contract the in-between: 'rewriting you only meansthat the spaces I'm not writing in are where I live. ’(Mimi Khalvalti, Apology quoted in Day 5)What ‘traction’ points lie between the words below for you? What might your ‘noticing' and 'playfulness' return to the original author? This is your ‘Us’ story: I am 8 years old. Peacocks preen and fight, cars crash outside, a girl and a boy balance on the parapets. A note book lies on Grandfathers sheep skin rug, my toes peeping out of my sandals look as if they have been made out of snow-flakes and drops of sweet evaporated milk. A turntable with an integrated tape deck plays notes through a building with holes for windows, eyes, our first kiss, your tongue thrusting as the florescent light flickers overhead. Stray dogs, skinny and boney, a dead coconut leaf and over there, through the tree, and beyond the swing, I can see the yellow corn. My bed is painted in red with red bars around it. We painted and glued it there. Sometimes that's all any of us need big Bear. Hardly a day passes when I don't think of you. Journeying with the raindrops down the glass, being inside the raindrop perhaps. Talking about the 'strange sound world' that us hard of hearing people inhabit and then acid trip. I went round Times Square, full of hard core 'girlie' mags and film booths with men in dark glasses on high stools behind counters. I was drawn to it, but at the same time I was sick. Red Wellies. Rain Mac. Pompoms and finger-knitting were favourites of mine. The owner of the cafe sexually assaulted me and I didn't tell anybody. Like a dog without a bone. You could just listen, but don't make any judgements. Could you give me a hug, please? Of course. They stand and hold each other for a moment. THINK TRACTION: What part of you do these words touch? Where do they land? What blockages are they signalling? What encounters are they enabling? What action might your words galvanise? What dialogue can we have? And now in any way you wish… images, words, film, sounds… re-write your ‘We’ story out from your bodily responses and places trying feelings first and to not lead with your mind… to know is to feel even if to feel is not yet to know… Like a lead, dead, heavy weight in the solar plexus. Sitting like a black, benign cancer usually without thought or influence. I don't need to fear or protect anymore he his dead the cancer he made got him first got him what he deserved. Once it's said, there's nothing left… not anymore I have so much to give, I am so much more. I am not the only one: The owner of the cafe sexually assaulted me and I didn't tell anybody… I wonder if justice has come to visit this person yet? My uncle sexually assaulted me and for a long time I didn't tell anybody… just his daughterHe lived a lie, he died a liar. He's paid. But what mark is left? The mark like a scar that doesn't die with them. But a scar is a permanent reminder that a nasty wound has healed a sign of strength even in silence.

The last day at my first school… It’s July 1988, I am 8 years old and at school. It’s been alovely sunny day, although the ‘classroom’ is always quite dim. The ‘classroom’is one half of a divided larger space with Mrs Addnitt’s class in one half, andmy class – Mrs Norgan’s, in the other. The door we come in through is in MrsAddnitt’s half. We hang our coats in Mrs Norgan’s half – on pegs near the messyarea. We painted and glued here. We planted a lot of things – daffodils and collias. We did a lot of writing in the mornings when I struggled to spell and a lot ofcraft. Pompoms and finger-knitting were favourites of mine. The messy tableshad a grey surface and they sat on a grey lino floor. The rest of the classroomhad a dark green carpet with a thin, light green stripe. On the opposite sideof the ‘classroom’ to Mrs Additt’s was a tank where we watched frogspawn evolvein to tadpoles and frogs. But before that tank was a small room where Igathered with all the children in my class and Mrs Norgan at the end of my lastday at that school – Maunds Wood in Harlow, Essex. I wouldn’t be going back after the summer holidays becauseour family were moving to Peterborough with the company Dad worked for. I wasgenuinely surprised to receive a large card my peers had made and signed. Ithad blue, lace flowers glued around the edge and a gold ‘M’ for Marie in thecentre. I was even more taken aback by the small card Mrs Norgan gave to me –just from her. This was handmade too. Another ‘M’ – but this had been carefully embroidered with dainty flowers. The writing inside beautiful calligraphy (which Mrs Norgan had taught me to do to improve my handwriting). I was a bit wild at in my time at that school – perhaps abit too much for the other kids at times. I could make people laugh, but then I’dbe on my own. Mrs Norgan had arranged for Mrs Hogarth (the headmistress) togive me extra lessons in spelling so I thought I was an unwanted problem. The last moments of that last day transformed the way Ithought about myself. I wouldn't share these with anyone no one else could value them as much as I do. I wouldn't take them anywhere in the real world I'd climb in the case with them and disappear into a dream.

My Traction Table: BeforeTractionAha ‘Moment’ What next? Choice points, insight into action, transit, transformation… I am the family mediator. Slapping my husband with the back of my hand. I can be violent. I need help seek it anywhere you might find it friends, family, GP, counsellor. I am dependent on my parents to care for me. Being asked to choose which parent to live with when I was 6 years old. My parents need caring for too. I choose my Dad so I can support him at home with his disability. I learn how to be self-less. I stop making life choices for myself and make them for others until I realise this at the age of 24. I need help to get on at school. My new teacher praised my handwriting when we moved to Peterborough in 1988. I can do well at school. I apply myself to doing well. I transform from being a disengaged pupil to become an ambitious, high achiever. I am the centre of attention at school in Harlow. I was bullied for my accent, achievements and my appearance at school in Peterborough for 7 years. I don't belong with these people. I choose my company cautiously and need to protect myself from harm. Family give us advice, guidance and security. I am sexually abused by my uncle at age 15. My family find out when I'm 17. They don't all believe me. People with authority can be manipulative, divisive and deceitful. People don't believe young people easily. I feel ashamed when I am Naïve. I reject family members who misjudge me. I find security in my independence. I am sexually curious. I have sex with men and women. I want to be in a relationship so I have to make a choice. I prefer sex with men. I stop sleeping with women. I only have relationships with men. I need to be happy in myself before I can be with anyone else. I let Alex love me and I let myself fall in love with him. I am happy. I want to keep Alex forever. We create a home together. We travel together. We are crazy together. We are perfect together. He proposes and I agree to marry him. I am designed to carry babies and give birth. My instincts will get me through labour. It will be beautiful. The birth of my first daughter, Sophia. After 3 days of labour that I don't know how to manage. I use gas and air, pethidine and an epidural to get through it. I argue against a c-section, and give up my body to a room full of people watching a consultant violently pull my baby out with a ventouse. The cord is cut from around the baby's neck before she is born. My baby is green and needs to be resuscitated. She may have suffered brain damage. I have to learn how to be the Mother I expect to be. Motherhood is a difficult, exhausting lesson to learn when I have such high expectations. My failures make me angry and aggressive. I become depressed. I am eventually excited about the extra love I feel for my unborn baby. The birth of my second daughter, Maisie. A quick, natural birth. Loving so many people can be overwhelming. I keep running out of time to show Alex my love. We become distant. I become depressed again.

I started using facebook when my parents left the country to live in Spain – it’s was my way of continuing to share my life with them. We also skype every couple of weeks. There are times when my Dad just asks me about all the things he’s seen me post and it stifles our communication because I have nothing more to say. He doesn’t imagine there is more than the social media profile he surveys. My Mum is completely unfamiliar with these technologies. Without my Dad as her facilitator, I have no way to reach out to her. I often need to be hugged by her. My husband is having an affair with his smart phone – she’s the first thing he turns to when he wakes up in the morning. He prefers her company to mine in the evening. But sometimes, a ‘liked’ post makes you feel interesting.

I invited Alex to walk with me… Move to the country? Listening He's been thinking, evaluating Togethering Touch, holding hands He wants to hear meWe plan our route, we move forward, we enjoy the view ahead of us. The path cracks. Plants find life there. Life keeps it together. The ground beneath continues to support. The path has transformed, but it still leads you to where you want to go. Go together.

My inner feminine is pissed off. Quite frankly, she’s has enough of the presumptive misjudgements about her being the oppositional ‘half’ – the ‘other-half’ who should passively serve the needs and desires of masculine forces. There’s no payoff for me in performing this role, unlike those women who are literally paid to be at home – to nest, to nurture and nourish. I cannot bare to hear the excuse, ‘it’s just ‘cos he’s a bloke’ again. I don’t work just because I’m a women and this right was gifted to me. I’m a women with ambition, intelligence and curiosity. I don’t bring up my children just because I’m a women and this is my domestic destiny. I am a women who cared to create new life. I didn’t marry just because I’m a women and I need a man to survive. I am a woman who’s successful life felt happier in the company of my husband and I wanted to keep him as my own, for always.

I start today giving my attention to you I was attending to my children and myself so much yesterday that I forgot about day 1 of this journey I'm sorry. I am trying to attend to myself much more at the moment following my recent diagnosis of depression and advice from t relate counsellor I am meeting for only the second time this morning. At our last meeting, she suggested I attend less to my children and more to myself. I accepted and appreciated that advice as it 'allowed' me to give myself time and freedom for me that should be supported by my husband. In attending more to myself, I have chosen to engage more with my friends who have allowed me the time and space to share my feelings, to find my way, and to keep loving my husband. This acceptance of me for who I am, when my husband seems to have misjudged me, is the warmest affection I could wish for right now. This affection makes me feel worth loving and reminds me of the kindness have in my heart. My husband's misjudgement of me feels in opposition to acceptance. My depression (and this is the third time I've gone through it in my time with Alex) makes me behave aggressively. In the last week, I have learned that he had no idea about this he has seen the aggression as part of me and over the last 7 years, detached himself from it and me. Alex was my best friend, my support, but when I was most vulnerable he isolated me. I have been so alone. When who we are is not accepted by those who promise to care, you can be surrounded by a thousand people and still feel the heartache of disconnect.

Where will it lead you? Thinking about our macro and micro worlds as collections of stars, communities of atoms are warmer for me now than they were at the age of 12 when I first considered them. Back then I imagined soulless particles bumbling around without conscious direction. Just existing in their given state and role. If that's all we are, what's the point in ambition, friendship and care? Now it fascinates me how those particles form and function. How soul can exist in their connection and how being emerges through the interaction and intention of those creatures and their habitat. Areas to Transform: 1… 2… 3… 4… 5… 6… 7… This is hard… I'm still trying to accept a lot. The thought of transformation makes me feel exhausted at the moment it requires so much of me. I find the idea of transforming difficult. For me it implies change, a shift from one thing to something other. I don't want to be other. I want to accept and carry life with me, to enrich me… instead of battling with me and pinning me down. But… I do have these Areas to Transform: 1… overwhelming feelings of anger, intolerance and aggression2… finding respect for my husband3… nurturing feelings of security in my beautiful daughters4… pursuing philosophical and creative curiosities5… staying open to those who are now 'on my radar' connecting with them empowers my sense of self, value and kindness6… my contribution as an artist and scholar7…