It's The Summer of Love. 1967. Do I now mention Mum's mastectomy, and Shirl going to Mrs King, and Mrs Carver coming round to give Paul and I our dinners, and being upset when I told her Mum would never pour tea leaves down the sink, like she was doing; before we went off to The Lake District, youth hosteling, six Liverpool lads in search of adventure? (While she was recovering, she let us go…)No, not now. Why not? It is not yet time, it may never be time. Finish your own journey first before you concern yourself with other people's. Anyway, she is no longer here. Okay, wise guru. (But in fact I have already told it, what I can remember.) Response to FACTI have really felt the longing to be a published writer of anything: stories, articles, poems, novels, plays, autobiographies, biographies. I have kept everything I have ever written, the most prolific being 15 articles for G& T Update, edited by Jane West who became a close friend. (Laura had some connection with the Gifted and Talented idea when she was at Warwick)The more narrative accounts of my life I have started and completed, the better, I think, I have become at making them accurate. My Truth, I think. Is to be honest, and sometimes witty, in my stories. The one point in this Project where I wasn't honest was when I put in the picture of a friend's motorbike, rather than my own, because his was more powerful and would cast me in a better light to the reader. I had to find the courage to be real. In order to tell the story properly of my wife's leaving, I devised a scenario whereby my best friend, Chris, told the story which I couldn't bear to do. I first told it to Richard Perl, the psychiatrist who saw me two years after the event on my GP's recommendation, and he seemed to understand how I felt, although he did tell me once that it was more difficult for women. In my fictionalised account, my friend, Chris, tells part of the story that I told to Richard Perl in Bedford over the course of a series of visits. Anyway I was really pleased with Chris's story which didn't appear to blame anyone, only the omniscient narrator did that, (They had worked it all out, reader.) But your view might be different, reader You might even ask, why does it matter so much? and i don't know the answer to that, but it did. I am now thinking I could get all the pieces of the story, print them out and lay them on the floor, and then turn them into cards and put them in a box, rather like B. S. Johnson did with The Unfortunates: A legendary 1960s experiment in form, The Unfortunates is B. S. Johnson's famous 'book in a box' in which all the chapters are presented unbound, to be read in any order the reader chooses. (Amazon)I would like my autobiographical narrative to consist of fragments to be assembled/disassembled in a similar fashion because i think that's what memory is fragments that can be re-assembled. It sometimes depends too on how you are feeling, just how this re-assembling takes place. Sometimes the re-assembly is more successful than others. I would say that the fictitious re-assembly I have done with Chris's help is the best to date. I feel lighter, less burdened by it. (The other image I like is that of the mosaic, the tiled floor made up of hundreds of tiny pieces, all fitting together to make the final picture. Sue and I saw some of these in Sicily and co-incidentally our next-door neighbour's father was Sicilian and a purveyor of tiles, and he sent someone to do the tiling of our conservatory floor, the room with a view that looks out over fields towards the Chilterns.)Did it work, my multiple narrative layers, my mosaic life-floor? Only you can tell me, reader. In a sense I have transformed my own life purposes, because, whatever happens next in the Project, I will never forget this journey I have been on over the 21 days, just as I never forgot the acid trip I went on in the 60s, which is recounted earlier. I hope as a result to become a better person, writer, husband, father, friend, lover, brother, colleague, teacher, pupil, all the roles we might assign ourselves in life. Does it have wider implications, less personal, more embracing of the world in general? I would like to link my experiences through literature, as I tried to do in the Aarhus paper, to seek out some kind of universal truth that art can improve our human lot. (back to George Eliot, again.)End

TBy Dan Quinn Own work, CC BY-SA 3. 0, The first image if is of the 'Lorenz Attractor’ a set of chaotic solutions of the Lorenz system which, when plotted, resemble a butterfly or figure eight or the 'Butterfly Effect’… The 'Butterfly Effect' in simplistic ‘Alice’ terms is a concept that small causes/actions/events can have large effects/impact/resonances… much like a stone when dropped in a pond sends out many ripples… ever increasing and decreasing circles… Similarly the Hummingbird… more insect in many ways than bird the movement of its wings move in a figure of eight pattern… they ‘shape shift’… changing the shape of the wing to fine tune or adjust to stay ‘lifted'… their wings can turn 180 degrees rotation… they have a huge heart that pumps blood up to 1260 beats a second and a brain bigger than any other bird relative to their size. Their embodied memory is vast and remembers all the species of flowers they have ever fed on and they ‘know’, when the nectar will be at its fullest… they can also see and hear much much further than humans… So Hummingbirds can fly forwards, backwards, sideways, upside down, straight up, down, hover… they create 75% of their lift on the ‘downstroke’ and 25% of their lift on the ‘upstroke’ they can quickly change direction whether on the up or down stroke… they can utilise the ‘positive' and ‘negative' points of this traction, action to generate decisive change… Today I would like you to imagine yourself as a Hummingbird. What is your Lift? What is your Drag? What is your Thrust? What Grounds you? How do you keep afloat or in flight? What propels you forward? (Your huge heart? Your memory of where to find nourishment? Your ability to adapt? Your ability to change direction and focus on what resources you have within you? Your ability to drop excess baggage?)In Drama speak: Our mutual co-effecting roles here are to: Contribute, Improvise, Develop, Refine and Polish to together 'take flight’ but be adaptable to move backwards, forwards, sideways, up, down and hover in order to ‘transform… 'In Forum Theatre: The ‘teacher/artist’ demonstrates… perhaps ’stopping and starting’ the development of the piece… going back to the beginning at times… discussing changes that could be made to ‘deepen’, tease out’, ‘better understand’ the ’situation/insight/sharing’ which in this 21 day process is my ’noticings’… In generating drama/art/storying we need to be open to the process and feel safe in an unjudgemental environment of ‘openly' making ‘mistakes’ so that we can ‘curiously' connect our work to our own lives and then choose if we wish to re-work them… this is a ’connotive rather than denotive’ process (Davis 2010: 48). In Action Research: 'Action research is about change and intervention.’ (O’Toole, J, 2006: 51). We are using my prompts, (artist/facilitator/muse as Participant 17 has said), to examine how to change a present situation ‘actively’, and to also ‘actively' interrogate our pasts and any 'troublesome situations’ that still reside in body-memory and to excavate the option to creatively and playfully 're-story’ ourselves into positive affect. I end with this video of 'The Klein Bottle' from Klein Bottle fanatic and enigmatic mathematician Cliff Still if your inside and outside had no ends, beginnings, edges… ups, downs, sideways… no male or female inward or outward constructs… what would you ‘wear on your outside’ what would you 'wear on your inside’… what would an integrated 4D you look like… what ripples would you send out into our very limited ‘Post-Truth’ 2017 world… to activate change?… am no mathematician and I’ll leave that to Participant 6 who I hope will help with all of that… but I am a thinker, researcher, artist and explorer and so are you all so let me know what comes up for you while you explore this state of being co-creatos somewhere in space and time… As Prof Brian Cox says: ‘If I leave a place in space, then it doesn’t cease to exist when I left it, and in spae-time, if I leave an event it doesn't cease to exist when I’ve left it’ (12: 07: 2016). XResponse to Day 18For some reason all this that I have watched reminds of the opening of E. M. Fordter' novel, The Longest Journey, so I hope it's okay if I run with this for a bit and see what happens. Does an object or place still exist if you are not there? That is the basic premise of the novel's beginning. Fascinating. We have just been walking on Bempton CliffsHow do I know that my Bempton Cliffs were the same as Sue's Bempton Cliffs. If they were the same why wasn't everybody freaking out like I was? They weren't the same cliffs as Paul, my brother's cliffs. For him they are places where sea birds nest, but an artist like David Hockney who lives nearby in Bridlington might see them in a different way through an artistic filter. What does that mean? Now you know that he likes light and used California for his art. What you didn't know then, when you talked to him in the Midland Arms, Hendon, in 1969, where he had come to drink with you and Pete Patston, (who I still see and who sadly now has Parkinson's), and Derek Miles and Eric Punax, was that David Hockney was gay. Would it have changed anything if you had known that? Would there have been the same male camaraderie as there was that night drinking in The Midland Arms after he had talked to the college Literary Society about his art. 'Peter getting out of Nick's Pool' is actually, now you look at it, quite a gay statement, but it didn'seem so then when you first saw it in an exhibition in Liverpool. It just seemed Iike: One boy getting out of another boy's poolThere was nothing obviously sexual about it, although for a gay person there probably was. The owner of the Greek cafe who forced himself up against me from behind and tried to push himself against my buttocks, making me shout, No! And thrust my elbows back againt him, sharply. Did he expect me to want what he was doing? Perhaps he did. He fancied me and he attempted a…? A what? Would it have been rape had he succeeded? I suppose it would. I have now talked about the idea, (not the incident with the cafe owner). to Sue who can't see why I am making a connection between Forster's philosophical idea in the novel and David Hockney's gayness. Perhaps I just couldn't cope with the idea of being fancied by a gay man. Despite, reader, being somewhat proud of my feminine type sensibilitiesMaybeMy past of what I saw as a betrayal by Viv has haunted me for many years. In what follows I learn to dance away from my sadness. Dance provides me with exercise, bodily movement, that is touching or avoiding other people. It can be playful which I love being. For example at the conference in Canterbury there was an all-woman dance group that took us through a lot of movement activities. At some point, and I can't really remember why, everyone, men included was given a huge wide skirt to wear and suddenly along with Linden and this very tall Dutch man I was part of this group of mainly women, all dancing in our huge skirts and feeling free. I loved it. I like playing roles. I liked imagining I was Katy in What Katy Did. I liked imagining I was Viv in my story Geraldine (1975) This is the first paragraph: Geraldine Chapman knocked lightly on the glass-fronted door. Behind her the rain continued to fall and an occasional drip fell from the lintel, cold and hard against her forehead. She shook the sodden black umbrella in her other hand and knocked again, somewhat harder, crouching against the doorway to avoid the rain. At last, after what seemed to Geraldine an interminable length of time, a dim light came on in the hallway and she could discern a vague shape approaching behind the frosted glass. Geraldine picked up her suitcase from the step and, wiping the damp hair away from her face with her coat sleeve, managed to summon a smile of greeting. I like trying out different teaching roles: I have been a General Subjects teacher; a Secondary English teacher,; the Head of Science at a 9-13 Middle School; a teacher of Science to Primary School teachers; a teacher ol Primary Science to infant and nursery school children; a teacher of, and co-ordinator of ideas for, Gifted and Talented children; a trainer of Teaching Assistants; and now a teacher of English Literature to adults. I suppose if there is a common factor it is my love of performance. I get a 'high' out of teaching a 'good lesson' but have never really explored why this should be. The act of teaching itself is a very powerful one. It is a powerful role. Last week, for some reason, I got talking to Emilie in the paper shop about writing poetry. She intimated that she would like to see my poems so I sent her For Hadi and Every object is the story of my life, which she really liked. I followed up, explaining about Ghazals in Persian poetry, the teacher in me wanting to communicate some beauty to this girl/woman who takes the money for my newspaper order each week. I sense that Emillie is in a liminal state, being between girl and woman. Perhaps she will turn into a butterfly… Do you remember Pete when Alan in Broad Green Hospital talked to you about Dylan Thomas and T. S. Eliot. This was during a routine cartilage operation and what an effect that had transformational. You never looked back. Friday8am. It is morning. I have just read this lovely story in the Buckingham Advertiser about Gemma. Gemma was in the New Inn with £250 in her handbag, the deposit for a new flat that she was moving into. However, during a fun evening the £250 was stolen without her knowing. When she discovered this the next day Gemma was distraught, and put it on Face-Book to shame the person into returning the money. However, the post was seen by Penny who suggested that everyone chip in a pound. Gemma's friend Julia, whose daughter had tragically died from meningitis in 2014, also stepped in to help. Julia set up a Go-Fund Me page on Facebook. Within half an hour more than enough money had been raised by the people of Buckingham so that Gemma did not have to cancel her house move. Isn't that a lovely story, reader? Did I say something to Helen's Mum at the meeting over the chess pieces about girls taking over the world? Or women, but aren't they doing it already really with their kindness, and their lovingness, even when their men are brutal, (and maybe stole £250) no that's not fair, Pete, come on back to reality please. 9amNow Sue and I are off to MIlton Keynes for a shopping day. The MK shopping centre is lovely, and don't be put off by stories of concrete cows, they're lovely too. Go and see them some time. But now I want to tell you about my day, Alice, because today I was a dancer and I think you will like it because you like dancing. I noticed you see that every time I put on my hat, the one in the picture with Sue, I felt confident and wanted to perform, so when Sue went for her eye test I thought I would imagine I was a dancer. So, wearing my hat, I danced down to Debenhams. There I bought not one, not two, but three pairs of trousers and danced with male and female shop assistants while choosing them. Then, on the way out I saw a shirt that I loved and, feeling like Richard Gere in American Gigolo, I danced back to the changing rooms, tried it on and bought it (as well as a belt to hold the trousers up.)I then danced over to Specsavers to meet up with Sue, praised her choice of frames, and went out into the centre to sit down while she paid. This took ages because these things do sometimes, and I observed people passing and tried to decide whether they were dancing, or not dancing. Some were, definitely, and some were not. Sue came out and I told her that today I was a dancer and that we would dance over to Cotswold to. buy me a rucksack, because the one I have is giving me tennis elbow and it's twenty years old. And so we danced into the car park and into the car and across three lanes of traffic to the Cotswold roundabout, and then into the shop itself. Even though I had told Sue I was a dancer, she seemed to accept it and not treat me like a nutcaseAnd then you had the best dance of all with the shop assistant who knew a lot about rucksacks and the reasons why a badly fitting one might cause tennis elbow, and who patted and adjusted, and loosened, and tightened until the chosen rucksack felt really comfortable on you, so that you went with him to the till and produced the Gorphwyfsa Club (walking group) membership card that entitled you to 20% discount and said, Thanks Dan, which was on his name badge. And then you danced into Costa coffee with Sue and had lunch, and then drove down to the care home in Newport Pagnell and sat in the car with the door half open while she went to return her uniform to the manager, because she has now left this job for a new one. 'And did the dancing stop then? 'Yes, for a moment, and as you sat with the door half open, listening to The Corrs, Her, CD, singing 'My Lagan Love' you remembered how much you loved being with Sue. When Lagan stream sing lullaby Then blows a lily fair When twilight gleam is in her eyes The night is on her hair And like a love sick lenanshee She hath my heart in thrall No life have I, no liberty With love is lord of all. Well I don't know what you think of that, reader. Not exactly free love is it? But at that moment in time, wearing the dancing hat, and thinking of Langan love, it became a special moment. A day that started well just got better. 'Have just showed this to Sue and she liked it but wondered why I had used you instead of I in the two paragraphs. What does the editor think? Also have I lost my original point about betrayal? Do I just dance away to escape from it and why anyway shouldn't we? Surely it is better than screaming and crying? Have you just moved this? Are you watching me my Muse? I think you are. P. And it's lovely. EndHey Pete. It's morning and another day beckons… The Wheel of Life, but first Quaker meeting, a lot of things to consider in the silence, the news of another London attack for one. '… here where men sit and hear each other groan. ' (Keats)

Response to Day 15 Well now I've looked up Mimi Khalvalti and suddenly I want to know all about her because I share her poetic sensibility I think. I have been on Arvon courses and found myself in writing. I have just read her poem, Everywhere you see her, with its reference to Monet's 'poppies'. I have read her reference to Faiz Ahmed Faiz that 'the true subject of poetry is the loss of the beloved' and have wanted to back away from this because it was true for me and was scary. I will sit down at some point and read her carefully. She may go in my Modern Poetry course where Christine asked for more female poets and when I offered KateTempest her eyebrows raised. I go on to read more about her and find words like villanelle and rubaiyat, both forms I love, how Wendy Cope taught us villanelle and how I have that book about the Omar Khayam, a rubaiyat, which I now can't find, but it has the lines about paradise being 'a glass of wine, a book of verse and thou' which sort of contradicts the idea that the true subject of poetry is loss. My poem about Bex was walking with her after school picking flowers and wondering how I could bear the loss of her. Yet the poem was really about how I could never lose her: 'I found a clump of linden/Showing you the seeds small parachutes. /Those that the wind would blow down from the trees, /That might be blown from our hands if we breathed. ' It was a sonnet. Somehow the form makes the ache more bearable. I now look at Mimi Khalvati's verse and make some copies. She likes sonnets too. Just had a thought now, talking to Sue on the phone that this research could be seen as 'free form', inviting us to express ourselves however we want to with just triggers that we can pick up and run with. Seeing a poem on a tube is like that, you pick it up and remember it, it is stored in the mind to be used when needed. The spaces I'm not writing in is where I live, yes eating a sandwich now, thinking about how the ironing is waiting. I remember Mum doing this and everything seemed right: When I was a boy/Everything was right/Everything was right… but She said, I don't understand what you said/I said no, no, no you're wrong. The answer is to listen to the song… iron in hand. Finding out more about Mimi Khalvati I came across this. Now to write one perhaps. Hers are lovely. JUNE 1st I have now actually written one 'To Hadi a Ghazal' an ocean of wine please, with corks bobbing in it! Thank you Peter for the below 😃

Click on Link to play: Link to video on you tube: 'The eyes want to collaborate with the other senses. All the senses, including vision, can be regarded as extensions of the sense of touch – as specialisations of the skin. ' (Pallasmaa, J 2012: 42)mTo help re-imagine my own birth I turned to two poems the well known Prayer Before Birth by Louis MacNeice and the lesser known Vision and Prayer by Dylan Thomas. Both writers designed their poems in womb shapes because they were trying to imagine the other of themselves and both poems are beautiful examples of men trying to grasp that truth, which they themselves cannot experience in the same way as a woman can. When Bex was born it was amazing for me because Viv and I had gone to ante-natal classes together and I had learned how to coach her with the breathing. I think I was very confident that I could help her with this. I of course would feel no pain, except sharing hers. This is the nearest I have got to being in the womb, seeing my own daughter born, and oh what an amazing and unforgettable moment there in the delivery room together. You might think the dream was beginning but as Dylan Thomas says: 'And the whole pain/Flows open/And I/Die. ' If you look at the poem, you will see that the shape is the birth canal… Or Bob Dylan's 'He not busy being born/ is busy dying' from 'It's all right ma, I'm only bleeding'Or John Lennon's 'Soon as you're born they make you feel small… ' from Working Class HeroAnd now I think of my mother, so frail yet in-domitable, so strong to protect us after Dad's early death. She carried me, her first born, within her, and naturally wanted me to do great things in the world, solve its problems. I was always going to disappoint her. And yet my daughter, so wonderful, so positive about birthing her children. I read the wonderful book she had about natural birth after she had had Alistair, I read it almost without stopping. And Tamar, the water birth. Viv might have had that if time slipped. I've just asked Bex. The book was 'hypnobirthing' by Marie Montana. 'i carry your heart with me (i carry it in/my heart)i am never without it (anywhere/i go you go,…)'Is that what it is like to carry a child inside you? I wonder. e. e. cummings was talking about his lover but the poem kept coming into my head as I was writing this.

OMG Pete she has listened to you and she has heard your voice, and it is 1. 51, so goodbye Bella, I will have to leave you for another day and start on this and I will use the magpie who will pick from the notes, 'our first kiss', my first kiss. it was behind the shelters on the prom and Malc and I had met two girls and they knew about boys and they were in control and they kissed us fiercely and I had never felt anything before like this, nothing ever was like this. Now go Magpie and look for other trinkets, are you going to bring me sorrow or joy? And I want it to be joy, yes joy because I have been so sad, and did your wing just flap then in the corner of my eye and tell me it could never be so good as it was behind the shelters on the prom. And where are you now? what happened to you, and did it mean as much to you, that moment behind the shelters? It's Malc now Magpie, you are bringing him to me in the photo and he was my best friend and we shared everything and we met Pat and Joan together and Pat ditched me after three weeks but it didn't matter. (Can you bear all this stuff about girls, yes I think you can because you have listened before) so come on Magpie, take me to Malc who was so good looking that I envied him and with Joan he told me how she went to his house, and his mum was out, and she let him touch her breasts and she had dark curly hair and a blue coat and they loved each other for months and then his mother found out she was a Catholic and pulled down the roof on him, and my mother never would do that. So come on Magpie, take me away from this, take me to Beryl. And Steve and I were playing table tennis in the youth club, not ours where they had given us sex education, but Mossley Hill, and they were watching us and we talked, yes talked Magpie we actually talked to girls. And afterwards I said, can I walk you to the bus stop and we kissed there. (Oh it sounds so corny now, doesn't it Magpie? But don't laugh) because Beryl, she was round and soft like girls are, and I had seen Gilbo hitting her with his bag at Atlantic House waiting for the bus, in her uniform with her green beret, pinned at the sides with clips. Girls. And Gilbo wore a jacket with THEM written on the back in thick blue pen and he was hitting Beryl, hitting her with his bag. Did he hate her softness, Magpie? Oh tell me because when I knew her better and we would sit on the couch with Mum in the other room, and she had the skirt with ribbed stripes, I said what I had seen at Atlantic House and Gilbo, before I knew her, when she was other, but she didn't want to talk about it, and oh the beret Magpie with the clips at the sides. But I ended it didn't I from the phone box at the top of the road, even though I had taken her home every Saturday and watched Match of the Day with her Dad while she and her Mum made tea, yes I ended it because it was enough and She had let me touch her breasts (are we so terrible Magpie, us men? Because it is so powerful the wanting, the needing, the beret with the clips, do you know that?) and I wanted to be free again because now I knew a bit about girls, and they were not like Katie from Susan Coolidge, they were real, oh so real. The Magpie looks again at the notes and swoops on Peacocks, and it is Gill and Dave and it is Bedford, Peacocks, an auction house and they lived near there, and I had met Dave at The Queens Head where he played guitar, and both of us, our wives had left us for others, and that is so hard Magpie, that is so hard to bear, but I asked Jim if I could read my poems, and he said even if it was written on a bit of bog roll I could do it, so I did and Dave played his. songs and I read poems while they, the people listening to Dave, went for a beer, so I began to write for them and I got better and I made them laugh and they listened. to me. Thatched Cottage Blues, they loved that one, 'She dreamed of a little cottage/ Of straw instead of slate/ A wagon wheel beside the door/And roses round the gate. ' And I made them laugh, yes laugh, laugh with me at what had happened. 'They moved in during summer/And lived in married bliss/ He never left for work without giving her a kiss.' And although they knew the awfulness, must have known Magpie, that I was bleeding there, It's all right Ma, they laughed the loudest when I read 'She started to get restless/She thought she'd run away/And marry an accountant/At least they get good pay.' And if you are listening to this Magpie and I know you are, the punch line, 'He woke one day to find her gone/A note told him the news/All that was left was a heap of dead rats/And thatched cottage blues.' should make you laugh or weep, or both, because he had loved girls this man, and they became women and they had children and they wanted accountants for God's sake not poets. But Gill wanted Dave, Gill who was attractive and who wrote funny plays about tampons and being a woman and performed them with a friend at the workshop, where I read my poetry, and Dave and I watched, and she liked Dave, who was kind and who wasn't only interested in her body, and they sang together her song, What I Want, which she and Dave had written and had practised in my garage with the empty cardboard egg trays hung down from the ceiling as baffles and performed, and she married him. I was their best man, Magpie, and I told jokes at the wedding and I was proud to do this for them because we were friends and I had thought marriage was for life and it wasn't for me but it might be for them. I had to wait and learn more about girls becoming women before I married again, and I did, I did learn more, but you will have to wait now Magpie if you want to hear about it because I'm tired and I seem to be writing the novel that I always wanted to write so fly away please. Two little dicky birds sitting on a wall/One named Peter, the other named Paul/Fly away Peter/Fly away Paul/Come back Peter/Come back Paul.

The IngredientsTake a piece of courgetteAnd a pair of carrotsAdd a bit of onionAnd about a tablespoon of vegetable oilHalf a dozen mushroomsTin of chopped tomatoesIf you lump it all togetherWell, you got a recipe for a Get along sceneOh, what a beautiful dreamIf it could only come true, You know, you knowSinging, 'What we need is… etc'Based on the song 'Melting Pot' by Blue Mink (1969)N. B. I am aware that this is now considered a racist song and that the BBC had to apologise for playing it (cite this) but I have been singing it in my head all day and for me it embodies the optimism of the 60s, which I have not yet lost. The StoryMy daughter would come to visit me every other Saturday and I would return her to her mother and stepfather on the Sunday morning. I almost always made her vegetarian spaghetti for Saturday night from the ingredients pictured, because her school was vegetarian. The spaghetti was the long kind in the blue wrapper which is now difficult to get. She often mentions it to me these days now that she has two children of her own, and she talks about making it again. I think it is the only meal I have ever actually 'invented', as it were. I am now going to chop up the ingredients and cook it. I will let you know how I get on, with another photo. Oh yes, there is always. Cheddar cheese on top, no Parmesan then, or as I used to call it 'parmesian' which always used to annoy her 'Oh, Daddy! 'I can still hear it. 'And crusty bread, ' she said when. I asked her in a face-time message this morning what the ingredients were, but I honestly don't remember that. Memory is such an intriguing thing, and do two people ever have the same memories of an event, or a meal, or a shared meal? I wonder, Alice in Wonderland, I wonder… The meal as eaten by Sue and I. She did some chopping, and i also did some and then the cooking, while she grated the cheese and cut the crusty bread. Which plate was hers do you think? An ocean of wine if you get the right answer! PS. I didn't have wine when I was cooking it for Becky. And now the second instalment of the Pete menu. This time it's steak and sautéed potatoes designed for the Saturday nights when Becky didn't come to visit and I didn't have a girlfriend to hold my hand, or didn't have a blind date to go on, or a dining club evening, run by Geoff, to negotiate. The steak is cooked perfectly, the best this side of London as I say to my butcher and he rejoins, No, I cook the best steak this side of London. Our male horns are locked you see. Then the sautéed potatoes are drawn from the deep fat fryer, which has overflowed because you haven't changed the oil recently, and Sue, now she is here, drains the broccoli, and scoops out the onions and mushrooms which you have fried but which she has chopped. And supper is eaten, accompanied by a glass or two, or even three of red wine, tonight a Shiraz which you have while Sue, who doesn't like red wine, has prosecco. What was that line about Jack Spratt? Pete, shut up, just put the photo in. Okay, and by the way Sue has had chicken. All right, and what's for pudding, thenThe answer I found out today was a choc-ice! Was that on the pudding pictures?

The past touches me like… On the top of my bookshelf is a photo taken in 1970 of 12 of us outside the Palm House in Sefton Park, Liverpool. In August this year eight of us are to meet there again. I go back there, the past, frequently, trying to make sense of the emotions caused falling in love, being left by Viv, my daughter being born. And now her son and her daughter. The incredibleness of birth. Her first one in Malaysia where they have these ideas about confinement and no-one can visit for a month. And Viv hated that because she wanted to share it with Bex. Me, I accepted what she wanted. I trusted her. When Sue and I finally flew out to see baby it was good. I held him and danced with him singing. When we got back to England I had this extraordinary dream of Viv's leaving me so many years ago. It was as if it was happening again and I was frightened. And now the next baby, a little girl, that she had in England, bringing over the Malaysian midwife that they trusted to supervise the confinement. It was painless for her. I was so glad for Bex. When she was born I remember Viv in labour getting up and saying she wanted to walk away from the pain. Can you? Can you walk away from the pain of the past? Some say, forget it or don't look at it. I choose to. The picture today makes me think of that artist who saw a woman's body as The World. (El Mundo) The world by which we enter and return… I added the photo from the start but which is me? Oh trial and error. Red arrows pierce the past and Sue, now Poole, sitting like a matriarch in the middle. She was all of 17, and Malc, now dead, so good-looking, and Vince who played For Emily, wherever I may find her on his guitar and Elaine the Pre-Raphaelite beauty at the front. Oh such times we had. Thoughts of the past, by Stanhope'In the finished picture the expression is more ambiguous, suggesting willpower and determination as much as hopelessness and despair. ' Alison Smith How much am I in touch with me? I like to think I am, yet who is that person in the photo, on the brink of manhood and dreaming, not seeing his future? What is it like to be a man? I think yes of that moment in the Sistine Chapel, seeing God reaching out his hand to create Adam, and thinking 'What a piece of work is man…' This was just after I had left Vera, knowing that it could just never be, that she was married, in spite of that space in the rain when we had run together from the villa to the bus, and I had looked at her and we were laughing…

i am going to tackle this one again from a life story point of view as that is what I find, not the easiest, but the most satisfying. Where I was growing up in Liverpool the neighbourhood was very tied to the church, not Catholic but straight C of E, and we went to it, not Mum, she just sent us, and we went to Sunday School and Bible Class and OMG there is another girl story here, reader, but not now, not yet. Rosalyn, I will leave you asleep for now, although you did once wake up when I was 50+ and we finally talked by email, and I told Sue about it, but first the chrysalis breaking open, come on Pete, emerge! We were in the Church Lads Brigade, Malc, Steve, Rund, me, my brother, Paul, and Peter Rimmer, and we played footee, and handball and 'boom coming over' and drilled Attention! Right dress! And marched, marched, marched. And, reader, I played a snare drum and I loved it, and would be in the front of the march, after Ace Burnham who swung the mace, and I would play the two threes, holding the sticks up under my nose, and we would start marching. Outside Liverpool's Anglican Carhedral, we would gather: RatatatatatatatatatRatatatatatatatatatAnd then the bugles would blow and the bass drum played by Clifford Hannah would keep the rhythm: Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! And it was beautiful… Now reader the CLB was run by men who were quasi-military, because WWII was not long over, and some of them needed a role, and they were good hearted men but they had been soldiers, and they wanted everybody else to be soldiers, soldiers of Christ, perhaps, but still soldiers. But the butterflies were emerging from their chrysalises because their soft bodies had been listening to songwriters like Bob Dylan who said that killing people wasn't really such a good thing, even if they were soldiers, because lots of other people got killed too. And wasn't Jesus against killing? You see the caterpillar's problem don't you reader? So one day Pete, Malc, Steve, Rund. Paul. Pete's brother, and Peter Rimmer, went to Major Howard and told him that they had decided that war was not a good thing and that they were leaving the CLB. And Major Howard was angry, and enraged and went purple in the face and condemned them, utterly condemned them but it was no good, the war was over, and their life was just beginning. So the butterflies emerged from their chrysalises and fluttered away. and I dreamed I saw the bomber jet planes/Riding shotgun in the skies/Turning into butterflies above our nation -((Woodstock by Joni Mitchell) Please add the recording of Woodstock, Alice, if you can, when you do the noticing for this one. Next DayI wake up and somehow I am singing: 'You can get anything you want at Alice's Restaurant. ' Do you know the song Alice because if you don't you could listen. It is a song by Argo Guthrie, son of Woody, and Woody was Bob Dylan's mentor, as Bob Dylan was my mentor. and Bob Dylan went to visit Woody in hospital when he was dying from complications due to Huntington's disease. It is good to visit the dying and my Dad was in hospital in Stanley Park, Liverpool, suffering kidney failure from the multiple sclerosis that had afflicted him for eight years. Mum took me to the hospital to visit him and I took with me to show him a stool I had made in the woodwork class with Mr MacDonald, who wore a tobacco coloured overall and had a white moustache, and was good with his hands, like Dad had been good with his hands, when he made us toys, castles, garages and cranes, in the shed from his Hobbies magazines. And I think Dad smiled as he looked at my stool, but his mouth, which had once held a pipe filled with St Bruno flake, was now slack. One night, reader, it must have been late July, 1962, Mum came into our bedroom and said that she wanted to talk to us. We had divans, Pal and I, and Mum sat on one of them and asked us how we would feel if God took Dad away from us? I can't remember how we responded, we probably cried, but softly. The next day Mum told us that Dad had died in the night. Paul was 11, I was 12, Shirley was 4. Mum was 37. Nothing much was then said about Dad's death to his children. We didn't go to the funeral, but I remember people in black in the front room eating cake and drinking sherry. I suspect that at some point Mum told us that we must be breve, the same words I had said to Becky when I really meant I had to be brave, not her. But in this case Mum really had to be brave oh very brave, and she was. And in September 1962 I struggled up the road to the bus for school in the mornings and never said anything to anybody about what had happened to Dad, except once, at the front of an Atlantean bus, looking out of the front window, and Graham Blackburn (Blackie) suddenly asked me what my Dad did, and I said, 'He's dead'; and Blackie looked surprised because I think I was choking, but luckily the bus then came to my stop and I got up, got off, and walked quickly down the road to 24 Stratford, our house. And eventually Peter started going to Quaker meetings, but not yet, Not until he met Sue, but that's a long time away, about 30 years after he had banged the drum in the CLB, which he loved doing, until he left as I have said. Because Peter now began to question received religion and when his best friend Malc came to his door one evening and told him that his dad had died from a heart attack, he began to question it even more. And then when his friend Dave Smith, who later was on the beach in St Ives when he met Viv, and who had chosen her friend, Sheila, because she had 'big tits', leaving Peter with Viv who didn't, but who was pretty and who had studied Russian like Peter had, (and they could write to each other, reader, in a secret code because Russian letters are different). Hey can you get to the point please, what about his friend, Dave Smith? Okay, I will. His friend Dave Smith, whose mother had four children, three of whom were younger and girls, also had a heart attack and died. So Peter thought, Fuck this and stopped believing in God. And another caterpillar went into its. chrysalis and another flying creature emerged from the soup, but this time not a butterfly. This time a moth. But still quite beautiful even though Peter's Mum hated them, hated their large soft bodies that had emerged from the primal soup, just like Peter had emerged from her as a boy. and she didn't understand boys even though she had been s tomboy because nobody had told her, and her husband was dead. 'I'm a boy, I'm a boy but my Ma won't admit it/I'm a boy, I'm s boy but if I say I am I'll get it. ' (The Who) Liminalty Liminalty from the Latin meaning 'a threshold' is a psychological, neurological or metaphysical subjective state, conscious or unconscious, of being on the threshold of or between two different existential planes… From Wikipedia and used in my Notes to Students 17/10/11, when my Ivinghoe group were studying Offshore by Penelope Fitzgerald.

Love is… reminds me of a cartoon series in the 70s which was sort of funny, but it also reminds me of Donne's lines She is all states and all princes, I, /Nothing else is. Being present or very immediate, in the moment, is passionate love of the Donne kind but the funny kind is more how it is rather than how we would like it to be. It could be that as we age and become more cynical we lose the ability to feel love in the immediate, being present way, and have to laugh as the cartoon was asking us to do. But what love do we mean here. Is it for a woman, or a child or even a pet cat? I can remember feeling love, but being present in it is more like when you are about to lose it. The moment can be so fleeting, like holding your child's hand or waking up with a lover. Stay another day is a song I heard once in W. H. Smiths and realised that I was in love. It was a present moment feeling and I can reach back for it when I need to. Now I am thinking of the poem about letting the eternal note of sadness in. Let us be true to one another. It is Arnold's Dover Beach when he is afraid that they will be parted. For the journey Peter Buffalo Springfield Expecting to fly (Original Vid)

RosaLyn in the Soup! Okay okay, I'll tell you a story, reader, this is a story about the bubbling hormonal soup that is in people when they are young, when they are in that liminal state to which you, Alice, have added such interesting pieces in your notes, and which I only came across when teaching Offshore by Penelope Fitzgerald, not to adolescents but to retired people in their 70s and 80s, because you never really lose the memory of that time when you were liminal. So here is the story, reader which I hope you are now eager to hear, and I think in it's own way it is quite lovely, not like Dad's death or Vivien's betrayal. Okay, here goes. Peter went to Bible Class and was taught about the bible by an earnest young woman called Heather, and surely, reader, as Heather sat there leading the class, she must have seen that these young people were bubbling with hormones… There was Peter, Paul, his brother, Malc, Steve, Peter Rimmer, Dave Smith, the twins Jean snd Gaye Smith, (no relation) who were oh so pretty, reader, you had never seen such pretty girls as those two. Except for Rosalyn who wore a cerise coloured coat and had soft fair hair which touched its collars, and whose lips Peter would have longed to kiss when he knew what kissing was. And it wasn't quite the sort of hormones that had Peter reaching for his copy of Penthouse in the night, the one that he had stolen, yes stolen reader, Peter had actually picked up the magazine together with the newspaper he was buying at a bookstall in Liverpool town centre and had paid (for the paper) and walked away with the magazine beneath the newspaper, waiting for the call behind him of, You thief, come back! But that call never came, because perhaps the woman on the bookstall, the same age as his mother, knew what boys were like, unlike his mother, and so let him take the magazine away to look at in the quiet of his soul, because these were pretty tasteful magazines in those days, reader, not like today, and he needed to know what these, these other, looked like beneath… Hey that's enough, Can we get back to Rosalyn, pleaseWell that's the point, don't you see? She was the other this Rosalyn, was the other. And every Sunday evening after the afternoon bible class, Peter would take out his Letts diary, and write down in it, in one of the many-coloured inks of the special pen he had with the six barrels, which rotated until you had found the one you wanted, and wrote down how much you loved her, this girl who you had never even spoken to, just looked at in the class, across the circle, and longed to speak to. And reader, you are not going to believe this, but years later when I was married to Sue, whom I love very deeply, I contacted Rosalyn through a website called Friends Reunited, and wrote to her and told her of the crush I had had on her all those years ago, and she, now Lyn, replied, and we exchanged a number of emails about our lives, and what had happened to us since the bible class. This is from one: 'Subject: Re: Advanced Bible ClassesDear Peter, Things have changed, but not totally… My younger son, Stuart, who has just turned 17, hasn't yet discovered the joys of girls, at least not to go out with! He's just started at Bradford College, and must at least mix with the opposite sex, but that's all. My older son, who has just had his nineteenth birthday, now has a life of his own mainly in Leeds, although he's supposed to be living at home! I have no idea what he gets up to, but at least I do see him from time to time, which I wouldn't were he away! He only started going out at nearly 18, so from that point of view I haven't had a lot of hassle. (Perhaps I'm just lucky. Do you think it's hereditary?) Presume the relationship thing will strike them at some time. My own marriage ended in 1995 after 20 years. My ex drank rather a lot ! And it made him very verbally abusive. In the end I decided that the kids weren't being set a very good example!! At the moment I am going out with a very nice, caring person… Have a good week… why didn't they put half-term in the middle? Now have 8 weeks to do. Best wishes, Lyn. (P. S. Wonder if they knew at Bible Class that we were into meeting the opposite sex! Must it have shown?)'That's all now reader. We had many further exchanges, Lyn and I, and I sent her a book I had published about Gifted and Talented children. I don't know why. But that girl with the beret in the picture. I think that must have been her, or her younger cousin maybe…

Happy Birthday! Response to the climax, peak taskWhat do I say? It is my 40th birthday and she who I think I love and whom I have travelled with to Turkey and Ladakh, and have shared a tent with on the slopes of Stok-La, and who was a hairdresser but who wanted more and became, with my encouragement and help, a social worker, but who placed a pillow between us when we shared a double bed in Delhi, and who Becky didn't like, and who Shirl, my sister, thought was using me, and who was the eldest of three sisters, all blonde, whose working-class Dad believed that education was not important for girls; but who liked me because I read books and liked plays and went to classes about philosophy, which is where I met her, and who liked the music that I liked and went to see Bob Dylan with me and who liked Rikki don't lose that number by Steely Dan which is still one of my favourite songs. Well what is the point of this? She organised a 40th birthday party for me at her house and many of my friends came, Alan and Sylvia and Chris and Sue and Dave and Gill and my Mum, and even Viv put in an appearance bringing Becky, who was now 14, but I don't think she talked to Mum, for there was no Pete and Viv, as there had been ten years before, that relentless coupledom that i had subscribed to then, and still subscribe to now, although I am better st it. And I have learned that I needed to be free of the myth of coupledom which I had subscribed to, 'D. H. Lawrence like'. Twin souls wasn't it Pete? No, there are no twin souls, there is just you and sometimes companions for the journey men, women, girls, boys, children, lovers, friends, even cats, yes, I learned that when I was in Ireland on my own, having said to Mariaok I'll go alone, and it was better, it really was. I have arrived at Cork. I slept well, for me, in an upright chair in the passenger lounge and was first out of the ferry at 7am. Now I am sitting in Sheila's tourist hostel, surrounded by crowds of travelling people from various parts of the world. It is looking good. I've just had a . lovely hot shower and a change of clothes. There is Irish folk music playing, Mary Black I'm told, a traditional singer. I'm about to head off down to The Living Tradition [a folk music shop] to find out more. (Irish Notebook Summer 1994) This was my older/younger self, my older/younger self realising that his life would be so much better if he stopped worrying about not having a girlfriend and started enjoying being himself. And then of course it happened didn't it, as it always does, because the gods are kind and although they laugh at us they love us a little too a year after I returned from Ireland, with a farewell bottle of Jamieson's for Maria, and having had a fantastic time being on my own, I met someone. But that's another story, reader. I haven't really kept to the plan, Alice, which I wrote down before I went on the walk that you suggested. But I don't think you'll mind, because I think, though I haven't met you, that you are a nice person. And I do hope it (the story) made you smile. Take care Pete Peter Leyland Liverpool, England 18/03/1950, Monday 3pm Marjorie Wilma Baker Frank Smalley Leyland Verse 197Oh heart, do not grieve over this worn-out world, You are not aimless, do not indulge in aimless sorrows; Since it is not clear what has gone and what has not, Be happy, don't grieve over what was and what was notFrom. 'The Rhubyat of Omar Khayam', Penguin Classics (1979)

Walking as a form of meditation and retreat… words forming and memories arising when we are ‘switched off’ doing something else in our body and then creativity comes! :)Rest dayA reference by Alice in her notes this morning about walking has touched a place deep within me. I remember trekking in Ladakh in 1990, and during the journey the group encountered a woman in a sort of mountain cave with two children. Her husband was elsewhere in the mountains yet she made us welcome and gave us chai. We were at 17, 600ft.

Have you seen the stars tonight? Do you want to come outside and look at Them with me? Have you seen the stars tonight? Do you want to come outside and keep me company? This is a song by Grace Slick and Paul Kantner when the world seemed possible and to be full of love, Alice, and I know you want that too, want the world to be full of love, because you have said so, and yesterday there has been a terrible bombing in Manchester, which you mentioned in your introduction to our day with the stars. (And do you know, Alice, Sue protected me from knowing about this terrible thing) until I watched the news in the evening, and then I saw the horror of what had happened, the horror, and I am a Pisces, the 12th sign, and I have already looked at that in your notes, Alice, because that is easy to read, The Moon in Pisces I think. Is the most like me. You have put it all before us and l will be just like the Magpie again and look for the glittering objects among the brokenness of the world, like the bombing just now, and look for the love that is also here, because I have been there and seen that love can be possible, and when Paul and Grace sang that song, there was also horror in the world and a little girl ran down a road in Vietnam burning from napalm, and we saw it a lot of us, and many could only turn away, but I couldn't because I am a Piscean and I am sensitive, yes sensitive, not always a good thing to be in a world of sometimes horror, where people hurt each other, badly, deliberately, yes deliberately. How can anyone do that, such a thing. Like Mr Keffard did to Mrs Keffard in an earlier story that I put here. And she ran down our hall with a plate of dinner and tripped and fell and the dinner went everywhere. But Mum helped her, because Mum had love, some of that love you were talking about. When Mum died Shirl read at the church service about love from the bible: 'Love is patient and kind; love is not jealous or boastful; it is not arrogant or rude. Love does nor insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrong but rejoices in the right. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things ' 1 Corinthians 13. And you know something about love, don't you, when you held your sister and her still born baby in Australia, because I noticed that. You said I notice things and I do and I know you loved her, and it must have been terribly hard for her, but you helped, yes you helped because love helps people doesn't it, helps them carry on? How do I know this? Because I do, because I have met loving people, and I have wondered, yes wondered how you can turn not loving people into loving people. Can you do it by example? like Jesus or any of the world's religious figures? My sister can, I think you would like her. And now I must go and play amongst the stars for a bit, because the trouble with being a Piscean is that the world can overwhelm you sometimes, and I watched a programme yesterday about three girls in Rochdale, you will know the story l'm sure, and it is a cruel, hateful story, almost unbearable, but sometimes we have to watch unbearable things because we can change them, and they were trying to change them, those unbearable things, the good people in Rochdale, and there are some but nobody heard them, nobody listened. When I watch the rest of it sometime, but not today, because today I am a child on the starship, I will see how those good people did it. Why not today, Why not? Because today I want to play amongst the stars, and I want to do that, play amongst the stars, like a child, a child of the universe. 'We could go, we could go… Oh, oh but I want to know, will you come with me? ' These are fragments if song that I heard and listened to a long time ago, and there is one song that I remember more, because it is about peace and love and I will Give you some words of it: 'Well, if you smile st me you know I will understandBecause that is something everybody everywhere does in the same language… And I can see by your coat my friend that you're from the other side, there's just one thing I have to know, can you tell me please who won? And you can share some of my purple berries, Well I've been eating them for six or seven weeks nowHaven't got sick onceProbably keep us both alive! This is all from memory because the song is in my head, and it is a lovely song to listen to when the world is overwhelming. Wooden Ships by CSNY is now playing softly in Peter's background. You can hear the creaking of the sails. And now I'd better start the day and I feel good, but the world is out there, and us dreamers have to ground ourselves sometimes, otherwise we would just float away into space, just float away to the starsThat's a Piscean for you, (laughter) Song'Goe, and catche a falling starre, Get with child a mandrake roote, Tell me, where all past yeares are, Or who cleft the devil's foot, Teach me to heare Mermaides singing, Or to keep off envies stinging, And finde What windeServes to advance an honest minde. ' John DonneNow John Donne was a poet as you know, and if you're ever unsure what it's like for a man to be in love, just read him, The Sunne Rising, say, or The Goode Morrow. I said this to Laura, your friend, when we were on the train out of Copenhagen with others hanging on the straps with the train rattling along, because she likes John Donne, Laura does, and she smiled. But I know now Laura was still grieving deep inside for her Dad, which she told me, because people want to share things like grief, and she had read a book which helped her with that grief, which was the point of my paper at Aarhus, that through literature we can share things, and understand ourselves and our grieving, and our loving, and that is why I am doing this with you because it is similar Art is the nearest thing to life. (Eliot) and you are an artist. Gosh what a lot of thoughts, Alice. Time to go shopping with Sue and a cup of coffee in the new coffee shop in town! See you laterNow I'm back and looking at my P. C. 'The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, /But in ourselves, that we are underlings. 'And you have done a chart for me about my stars and I will look at it and try to understand it, I will, but later. We can't blame the stars, that you have shown us in your chart, only ourselves, only ourselvesBut that requires a lot of self-knowledge. But before I do any self-knowledge stuff, I have to tell you about my morning, because today I am in a starship and it's exciting and fun and I have interacted significantly with at least three people in Buckingham that I didn't know before, and Sue has been with me, because she has taken the day off, and we have had lovely time together, and I haven't read the paper in the coffee bar which I usually do, because the coffee bar is new, and Sue is my friend. And I will tell you this, that after coffee we went to the library and I was helping Sue choose a book, because she is not a reader like me, and she went to the shelves to look and I was sitting at a table, and suddenly across from me there was a sound, a musical sound, and I looked up because strangely us hearing-lost people are sensitive to sounds. And the woman across from me in a chair, about 50 with glasses was answering, you've guessed it, a mobile phone. And I listened, I couldn't help it, I listened and she wasn't hiding the conversation she was having and I heard the words, 50, and redundant, and heart operation and I thought about that. What is she saying to this person, another woman, because I can hear the voice but not the words. And Sue comes back and shows me her book and borrows my ticket and goes to the desk, and then I look up and the woman smiles at me, a small, sad smile, but an important smile, because there is a connection between us about being human, and I don't know her story, but I am human, just like her. And Sue comes back again with my ticket and her book, and we go out of the libtrary into the sunshine. And there are two more stories from this morning, but I won't tell you them, because they are not as important as this one which I chose for you, because the one I chose for you was about two people recognising each other for a moment, a brief moment, a human moment. And it's time for lunch'Full speed ahead captain, full speed ahead. 'Lunch is over and the starship is off this afternoon to London, where I am going to a new/old friend's book launch at a club, Gerry's Club, in Dean Street where I have never been, and I am excited, very excited because I'm going by train and I have got my rail pass, like I had my Ameripass to go on the Greyhound bus in America, and it is good to be a child sometimes and explore a bit more of the world.. Goodbye Captain, see you later, l'm going on the small ship on my own to a new planet, and I'll see you tomorrow for some more on the project which is great as you can probably hear from the child in me Singing

Response I was reading Bella's book on Sound and she was talking about the strange sound world that us hard of hearing people inhabit. She was talking about the sounds of London, the underground the overground, the ambulance sirens, the police stopping you, walking, on your bicycle in your car, a shelll against that noise. I started thinking about the acid trip that Viv and I took at Lesley and Phil's… And then suddenly the rainbow image came in from Alice and I thought I'd tell the story of that trip-'She comes in colours everwhere/she combs her hair/she's like a rainbow… ' Well where will this go? I'll try it -I had sent her a letter after coming back from America, hardly a day passes when I don't think of you, and we met under the clock at Waterloo Station as we had always done in the past, and I hadn't seen her for a year but she was still the same, and we got the train to Bromley, where they lived and had lunch together and the day went on and night came and we lay down together on the floor under some blankets: 'She's like a rainbow'And of course we loved each other as we had so many times before and I wondered whether she had been with anyone else because I had been insanely jealous, incredibly possessive. She's like a rainbowAnd yet I was the one who had finished it because l wanted to be with Jo, Jackie's sister, and then as soon as I was with Jo. I knew it didn't work and I was sorry because she had cried on the platform at Waterloo when I said that I didn't want to see her again and just wanted to be free. And then there was the postal strike and there were no letters so I couldn't tell her I was wrong, and so a few months went by and when I phoned her she had met someone else because of course she would do, you fool, she was so pretty.. She comes in colours everywhereShe combs her hairShe's like a rainbowSo then I went to America withTony and Jill from University and they both copped off with someone straight away and, of course, l didn't. So I went round Times Square which was full of hard core 'girlie' mags and film booths with men in dark glasses on high stools behind the counters, and I was drawn to it but at the same time I was sickened. But I did meet Arthur who was a friend of Arlene, who Tony was now with, and Arthur drove a yellow taxi in New York and tried to show me how to pick up girls by winding the window of your car down and calling to them but we never picked up any though. Riders on the StormRiders on the StormInto this house were bornInto this worldwere thrownLike a dog without a boneAn actor out on loanRiders on the stormThen I worked for Leviton's warehouse in Brooklyn for a bit, making up orders of electrical. components, driving a pallet truck, and it was the evening shift and I had to collect the supper orders from the Greek cafe, and once the owner of the cafe sexually assaulted me and I didn't tell anybody. And then Sue Kelly in Liverpool wrote to me and told me I had failed my degree so I had to go back home. But now Viv and I were at Lesley and Phil's and they had woken us up and given us a sugar cube each and the trip began… I had tried it once before and everything was heightened, time ceased to exist, colours were intense and vivid where we were. And then we went outside and Viv and Lesley went on the swings in the park and they were like two rag dolls, and the grass was so green. What you going to do when you see your lady rolling? What you going to do when you see your lady strollingOn the deck of a starship with her head hooked in Andromeda? And time stopped but we had to go back on the train to Waterloo because of her Dad, and I was thinking will anyone notice as we made our way across London, and I was scared that something would happen to one of us. But it didn't and we got our trains and I got back to Burnt Oak, and people were in the flats but I didn't tell them what had happened, except Chris, because I liked him, and I was guilty about Addie because I knew she liked me. And when Viv came to the parry at the weekend, and wore Tony's Afghan coat. I saw that Addie was crying becausel she realised we were together and she was crying and I was sorry. Like a dog without a boneSo I walk down to the shops in the rain because I said I would do it, still fuelled by the Benzedrine of the night before(Not really, reader, because I actually need things to calm me down rather than hype me up) and I return, having had half the contents of the rivers in Buckinghamshire dumped on me. And on my walk I was thinking of Bella's book about Sound and how I had got the sounds confused even then when I was 20, because I thought that Brian Jones was singing, 'Have you seen the Lady Pharaoh?, and not, Have you seen the lady fairer? Which he was. But The Lady Pharoah was better for me because she was stately and beautiful. And to be honest I had very little idea about women at all. Lady Madonna was my mother, yes, and Times Square was the harlot centre of New York, and where was Viv in all this? I didn't know but, like Lydgate's Rosamond, she was pretty, and so reader, I married her. And what about. Trump, a man who surrounds himself with attractive women as if to prop himself up, and who is abusive to them as I remember Derek Holmes was to my friend Anne at University, when he took her to bed at a party, and she said afterwards to me that he had hurt her: Part 1Counsellor And was she a virgin do you think? Peter Yes, I think she was. She said she had never had a boyfriend, and I had a crush on her because she had such lovely hair and wore that red dress that made het look like a post box from a distance… Counsellor And why do you think she told you this? Peter I don't know, I will never know, and of course I didn't know what to say to her. Even now, all these years later, I think of her and wish I could have done better. Counsellor Do you think you are trying to rescue women? Peter Yes, I think I am and I like to identify with Philip Marlowe who is always trying to rescue damsels in distress… Counsellor And do they always want to be rescued, Peter?. Peter No, I don't think they doPause Counsellor And do you know what happened to Anne? Peter Oh yes, she met someone the next year at University, called Ian, when I was living at The Rise in Mill Hill, and they were there one night and he showed me that poem by e. e. cummings, It may not always be so, and I thought he was telling me that I should give her up, and so I did. Counsellor You were still holding a candle for her then? Peter Yes, I suppose I was. Counsellor And what about Viv, where did she figure in all this? Peter Oh, she didn't know, because she was living in Bournemouth and would just come up at weekends. Counsellor You were having your cake and eating it then? Peter (smiling as he does in his photos) Yes, I suppose I was really. Part 2Counsellor Well, Pete, now we'll go on to more recent concerns. How do you feel about women now? Are you still trying to rescue and protect them? Peter it's a bit of yes and no really. There's Sue who I love, and I want to protect her from the bullying she has at work, but I'm not her Dad so I don't want to go too far. Counsellor You could just listen, don't make any judgements. Sometimes that's all any of us need, Pete. Peter OK I'll try. Counsellor (smiling) And stop watching all those television programmes. Yes, I know all about Rhys and about Everton, and about the parents' grief, but you don't want to be sad and angry all the time do you? Peter (suddenly shouting) No, of course I don't but it's just that I'm so fucking sick of the fucking world and fucking Trump, and that Rochdale thing about the 3 girls that's just been on, and about the fucking war in Syria, and about Grammar Schools and… Counsellor Hey come on, come on, Pete, it's okay. The world's not always such a bad place. Pete Now you sound like my mother. Counsellor Well, maybe she had a point. Peter Maybe she did. Could you give me a hug, please. Counsellor Of course. They stand and hold each other for a momentCounsellor Goodbye now, Pete. I'll see you next week. Peter Goodbye, Aiden. He leavesMelanie's Ruby Tuesday plays softly in the background. (Use version with her sitting on a beach with her guitar). Well, Alice, if you've got as far as this, I'm stopping now and Sue will be home soon and it's rained all day and it's time for me to get the dinner ready, but thanks for the wonderful prompt.

My BackpackEverything that is called Fragments is in my backpack, even the view from our house. Also Liverpool Friends before and after. One of these friends is very special and came to spend the day with me in Sandy after Viv had left. Here are some photos of Sue Lobley/Kelly/Poole, (Fragments 8) who is in the middle of the Sefton Park photo. Can you save someone's life by loving them for a day, I wonder? Did she ever tell Ian, her husband? probably not, because that day she was a goddess, and goddesses are canny about these things. Helping in Schools, some of my teaching assistant successes. I have since then also taught numerous adult English Literature classes, many of whom would go in the backpack too. Sue, my wife, and I have been talking about the backpack and she has seen me using the conservatory to take the photos with a plethora of objects, and the blind down to form a backdrop. We are now drinking tea out of our special mugs that she got for our china anniversary. And I have been sharing the backpack with her. Fragments 8deepak

Oh, Alice will this be my favourite one so far? I think I have many and would like to explore them Thank you for sharing yours. Here goes When Viv left I was about to go on a school trip with my headmaster and a group of 20 children to the Yorkshire Dales. I still went and for two weeks carried out this highly sensitised existence, similar to how I am feeling now, where I knew somehow I would have to survive. I didn't want to die. I felt like it but I didn't want to. So I was in the Yorkshire Dales with 20 children and a colleague, and we were walking, and suddenly the heavens opened and it rained cats, dogs, goats, monkeys, giraffes, even elephants, and although it was June, it was cold. Now these children, twelve/thirteen, some of them didn't have the proper equipment, because kids are like that, and they were cold and wet and very scared. But the head, who was slapdash but also resourceful slit open two survival bags and fixed them against one of the dry stone walls like a sort of lean-to, and we got the children inside, and some of them were crying and very frightened, and I knew I had to protect them so I went into the mother role which I am quite good at because I had seen my own mother do it, and I enclosed them together insiide the lean-to, as I imagine a mother would, although I didn't think about it, it just happened. When I got home to an empty house I wrote this poem, or it wrote me. I didn't even think about it, it just came out. This is the aha moment. Stone WallsThe dry stone wallBuilt with such infiniteCare and patienceGave us shelterWhen we were rained on. Rock upon rockOur backs against themAnd the storm lethalAs we huddled togetherThere was warmth in the stones From the men who had laid themAll that strengthProtected usFrom the sharp weather. So will I with the same warm strengthCarefully rebuild the wallWhen they are gone. Stone upon stoneRock upon rockNo gaps, no cracksNo falling downThis time. July 1980And I didn't die, I carried on, like Linden says, or Bob Dylan or both, 'Keep on keeping on'. But there were some gaps still reader and if I haven't bored you too much with all this bleeding heart stuff, I will tell you about another one, which funnily enough was probably the worst but became the best. I hope that intrigues you because it is quite interesting really and I have already mentioned it when l told you about going to Ireland, which was the nice bit, not the hard bit. And, by the way reader your story was pretty good too and it helps me that you show me how we can say things to each other, deep things, that are hard to discuss in talking, especially for men, and I know you don't really mind about the 'bleeding heart stuff' but we have to defend ourselves us men because we are supposed to be hunter gatherers, and it doesn't look good to the other hunter gatherers if you can't keep up with the pack, unless you are Paul Gascoine, but that is just a joke, and I think you are telling me to get on with it. So now here it is, the hard bit, and, remember you have still got the journey to America to come, which I will read to you when I've got it from the loft in my head, if I can find it. We will have to see. Peter had met Barbara on a singles week in Yorkshire run by a brilliant woman called Sylvia Longstaff which he had read about in a women's magazine and for some reason Barbara had found him sexy. Well sod it, she ended it before he did, which he would have done anyway because no way was this woman right for him, she just found him sexy and he was flattered because no-one had ever said that before, and this sex thing is a scared place to be out in, it's a game and he hadn't learned how to play it yet, but he would. The American journey had helped, but now he was out there again, a bit recovered but not quite yet, he had to learn a few more things. And they taught him, the gods, or is it goddesses, and they were kind to him, and at least two goddesses just enjoyed his company for a bit without the sex thing getting in the way. And one day he said to her, one of the goddesses, (and I must tell you reader that she was pretty beautiful, and was from Ireland, and had been married and left and had two children, and had returned home from Belfast one day, unexpectedly to find her current boyfriend in bed with another woman, yes these things do happen reader as you probably know) who liked Van Morrison and smoked dope, and worked as a secretary in Peter's college and seemed like the perfect woman for him; but she knew differently, because goddesses for all their beauty are pretty canny, he said to her: 'Come to Ireland with me'and she said no, not because she didn't like him, but because she was fed up with men and needed time to recover from her 'hurt heart'. And he went to Ireland on his own, and I think I've already told you this, but I've now added some visuals about the journey to America and the journey to Ireland. End. A Sense of Freedom, reader, that's what I learned; to be free to be beautiful and romantic and loving, and not to be afraid to love those things that others laugh at, like being weak, or 'sensitive' as my mother used to say. You know I wrote a poem once called 'You're so fucking sensitive' because someon said that to me and I threw it back, and said, I will be sensitive if I want to be.

Sue and I talk every day on the phone when she is at work at about one o'clock. I phone her mobile from the house phone and we talk for maybe 5 minutes. It is reassuring for her and for me because her job in a care home is hard. She started it a year ago, after being out of work for a couple of years. She is what is called an activities co-ordinator for people with dementia and often near the end of life. The care home is staffed by mainly working class women, many Phillipinos. I sense that many are tough, especially Julie, her boss, who is part of a management clique. Sue has never been part of anything like this before, although she did work in St Monica's, Winchester when she was a girl. She likes working with old people and is a good listener. She wanted to be a nurse but was not strong enough, she says, for the physical side of it. She became a secretary. When I met her she was working at Oxford University. Becky was at Christchurch, a strange co-incidence. Sue and I had met at a party and when I said, I won't see you again, she gave me her phone number. This was unusual. I still have it in my wallet where it has been for 20 years. I find using the phone difficult because my hearing is poor and I avoid it when I can. Hearing aids are okay, and help, especially the new digital ones, but I can't use mobiles. I have to lip read so phones are always difficult but generally the landline is better Email is a form of communicating I really love. It is about words rather than voices, although I do love to talk to people. It's funny. I had just started Bella Bathurst's book ‘Sound’ before I began this project. She lost her hearing when she was 27 and in the book she tells it exactly how it is to be in a silent world of your own. When I read the review of her book I recognised the stages of denial you go through over hearing loss and I emailed her to say I would be getting the book, and she replied… Communicating with others is vital for me. This i-pad is a fairly recent method of doing it. Bex gave it me as a present and I now use it a lot to check references and send emails. I use face-time every now and then to talk to my sister who is working in Cambodia. She is helping girls who have been trafficked to China and whose families have rejected them. Sometimes I talk to Becky and can see, my grandchildren, Alistair and Tamar. Actually this project, and using the Evernote with it, has opened up new ways of communicating for me. I love storytelling and last night I wrote a short play on the iPad to express things that had been crowding my mind the past, my Mum, femaleness in the form of a story. I don't really agree with what Rebecca Solnitt says about communication. I have lived alone, just waiting desperately for a phone call or a letter that never came. Now it is great that there are more channels to communicate with, even though it might just be with yourself. I once read Jimmy Boyle's book 'A Sense of Freedom' (1977) about the isolation he suffered in his solitary cell in Barlinnie Prison. Now Boyle had been a violent man but he found his truth in prison through writing. I wrote a poem for him about the violence of isolation: '… a little space of cleared floor/where they could not touch you/where the batons hammered uselessly/against your skull. ' He never allowed his dignity to be taken away. So I'm saying that all forms of digital communication can be good emails, texting, FaceTime, Facebook. It is a matter of how you choose to use it and, as we use it more, conventions appear, to ease the process of these new ways of sharing each other's words and thoughts. Virtual relationships can never match the importance of real ones, simply because there is no touch or closeness of bodies and voices. Just the presence of another person in a room is enough to transform the space you both occupy. Sometimes we need and seek solitude, at other times we need the 'otherness' of a person. There can be nothing more lonely than relating to a virtual person, a blow-up doll… As I wake up an example of virtual communication appears to me. It is the last episode tonight of Little Boy Blue, about the shooting of Rhys Jones, which had all the elements Liverpudlian (which I am), supporter of Everton (which I have been for 60+ years), the incredible bravery of a mother in carrying on (which I have already mentioned). For the first episode I posted on Facebook to ask my friends should I watch it and there were three responses from my daughter, Becky, from Jackie, an ex-teaching colleague, and from my sister-in-law, Sue. I had recorded the episode and posted a review which praised the skill of the writer. This is an approximation of the posts: Peter I don't know whether to watch this or not, can my Facebook friends help? Bex Don't watch it Daddy. You know how it will make you feel. Jackie (mother of two boys and a rebel in every aspect of her life) Yes, you should watch it. Sue Vicarious, emotional porn. I'm Liverpudlian but I won't go near it. Peter I hear-what you're saying. But I remember at school the gangs. I was 12, and Palmer showed me a clock pendulum that could be held in a weighted fist, and a sharpened belt, to be used in a fight. How far is this from a knife or a gun? We must look after our boys. Pause as Peter leaves FacebookPeter (returning to Facebook later) Well, I watched it as you knew I would and yes, it was harrowing. No further posts I chose to be harrowed didn't I because I think I wanted to share the pain of Rhys's parents, the pain sometimes of being human. I think now of The Pieta, which Lara showed us at the Aarhus conference as part of her and Linden's presentation. 'Art is the nearest thing to life… ' George Eliot 1856) If the drama can help Rhys's mother and father deal with their grief about the death of their son by sharing their pain with others, then yes it should be out there and I can watch it, just as I have looked at The Pieta in Rome and thought with Keats, who died there on the Spanish Steps, that to be alive is often 'to be full of sorrow/And leaden eyed despairs… 'The Pieta'

Nesting second promptNesting is a real basic instinct, but I have a very ambivalent view of it, not being practical. I never built tree houses or liked sheds and feel better in open rather than closed spaces. I always admire people who can build their own houses like my son-in-law, Dan, or my hippy friends, but have no desire to do this myself. And yet I love stories about people surviving, using their basic skills, like Robinson Crusoe, say, or Admiral Byrd in the Antarctic wastes. To put myself out there with little thought of what might happen is something I have often done. To leave the nest and learn to fly is a favourite metaphor. It is such a strong image, Icarus flying and the going too near the sun and crashing broken to the ground. He didn't listen to his father. I had no father to listen to, only a mother who frantically repaired her nest, when he was no longer there to do so, her broken man who was not there to feed his chicks. And yet he was brilliant practically, one of three brothers, two of whom were carpenters, and he went each evening to the shed and made us toys from wood, warmed by the paraffin stove he kept there. Two people, Mum and Dad, building a nest together for three chicks and then one dying.

I hope you like reading novels! A Liverpudlian's Taleit is 1997. The scene is Stantonbury Campus in Milton Keynes. Chris and Pete are just entering the turnstile and going through to pay their money for swimming. This is something they have been doing now for 13 years, since meeting as teachers at a middle school in 1984, when Pete was very single and Chris was married to Sue. Chris and Sue had just come back from living in Japan, where they had taught English to Japanese students. They were a very gregarious couple and had invited Pete into their life and world, where there were lots of family and friends. Very early in their friendship they had taken him to the newly opened Japanese restaurant in Milton Keynes town centre, and then, on another day, to the Peace Pagoda by Willen Lake. Pete and Chris really did get on well together in a male bonding way, and they started going to the pool every Thursday morning, before work, and every Monday evening after it. They often joked with each other in the pool about meeting two nurses and going away with them for an exciting weekend, and, even though Chris was happily married and had two children, Emily and Sam, and Pete was eventually also happily married to Sue, they still continued their joke. Now you know about Pete, reader, but not yet about Chris, so I will tell you. Chris was from working class stock, his Dad a factory foreman in Luton and his mum, a teacher, and then a headteacher. Chris had grown up in Luton and, being small there, had had to look after himself, not with his fists, but with words. Chris could devastate anyone within a five mile radius with a few choice witticisms aimed at the jugular. People did not get on the wrong side of Chris and come away smiling. Now I am going to take the role of the omniscient narrator, reader, and i am going to get on the inside of Chris and let him tell Pete's story, the story Pete tries to avoid telling; and so Chris will tell the story which Pete cannot, has never really been able to tell because it is so close to him; yes, now Chris, his friend, will tell it. I met Pete in 1984. I was starting a supply teaching job in Woburn Sands. Sue and I had had to come back from Japan rather suddenly, because my Mum had been diagnosed with a brain tumour. It wasn't terminal, however, and settled down, and then Sue and I also settled down near to Mum in Newport Pagnell. 'Teaching was a piece of piss for me. I could literally do it standing on my head and almost without looking. I got the job at Fulbrook, teaching English and other subjects and there was a staff meeting the first day for the beginning of term. I was sitting next to a bloke called Pete, gentle enough, if a bit edgy, and we introduced ourselves to each other. 'As the week went on we exchanged a few words and got talking. It appeared he too was new to the school. He had moved from Sandy to Cranfield in the summer and was starting a job there at Fulbrook Middle as Head of Science. Pete would later tell me that he hadn't even got a Science O'level, but had retrained as a Science teacher in 1981 at Bedford College under the auspices of a 'can doo' lecturer named Anne Pennell. Anne, I knew as I made it my business to know, had been the prime mover behind the success of Primary Science in the Home Counties. 'Anyway, never mind that. Pete would later tell me in one of our chats, either while swimming or in the pub, that for his degree he had to memorise 2, 000 lines of Beowulf. I thought that was a pretty impressive feat for a Scouser and I told him so. ' But there was a lot of other stuff that was interesting about Pete. Two weeks after the term had started he asked if I would like to go for a drink with him. I said I would and we went to the Nags Head in Great Linford and we shared our stories, me that l was born and brought up in Luton, and had trained as a teacher in Exeter where I had met Sue, a journalist who was from Cornwall, and had courted her and lived in Brixton with her, and married her and then travelled to Japan, where we spent a fantastic 3 years before returning home because of Mum. 'But Pete's story was more eventful than mine. He was born and brought up in Liverpool, he told me, as we sat drinking together, and his Dad had died when he was twelve, and he had grown up fatherless with his brother and sister, and of course his Mum whom he told me was indomitable. 'I was immediately sympathetic, being very close to my own father, who was soft and kind, a perfect foil for my Mum, and who had shown me all the intricacies of how car engines worked and of how to decorate a room, and how to make a lawn from turves of grass. Pete gave me to understand that he had never had any of that, and that he had only learned to drive a year ago. To put it simply, I was surprised at that, but he told me he had ridden a motorbike instead. Apparently you can't use that licence to drive a car. The skills are different. 'Whatever, I was even more surprised when he began telling me of the events of his life during the past four years. He had been, as he thought, happily married with a gorgeous daughter and living in Sandy, Bedfordshire, but that things had been difficult for him for some time. He had had a minor breakdown while working at Sandy Upper School because, suddenly, he just couldn't deal with the more than unusually difficult classes that he had been given at the school, and one day he just couldn't go in to work. 'And his wife, who had watched while her husband undertook the highly stressful job of teaching and realised that he would never be a headteacher, called the doctor who pronounced burnout due to the highly stressful job of teaching and signed him off work for three weeks. 'Pete told me, he had lain there in bed for the three weeks, reading among other things, The Raj Quartet by Paul Scott while his wife tended the house and looked after their child, and watched while her husband slowly got better, and wondered whether it was this that she had signed up for when she had married him, she who was pretty, and who had once been photographed for the Bournemouth Echo in a mini-skirt with a policeman. Yes, she wondered. 'And she wondered. 'But, Pete told me, he had got better, and had decided that teaching wasn't for him, and had resigned and taken a job as the clerk of Sandy Town Council, but had found that that wasn't really for him either, because one Friday two of the councillors had come to see him after work, suddenly and angrily, and had told him they were not satisfied with his work, no longer required his services, and were giving him a week's notice, and that he could leave immediately. (There was a lot of politics behind this, reader, which Pete wasn't used to, and he had tried to be neutral as the town clerk, not taking sides, which he thought was the right way, but, no, he should have taken sides with the two that had come to see him that Friday night. But he didn't, so they got rid of him, because they were powerful men, even though they did live in a small town called Sandy, Bedfordshire, where a lot of brussell sprouts were grown. If you want to laugh now you can, reader, but then we must proceed with the story.)'And so he left the town council offices, Pete told me, he left, and he had no job, and he had a wife, and a child, a beautiful child, that he had watched grow up and had bathed, and changed, and had read to each night. And he had got the sack, for no real reason other than that his face didn't fit. (Let's just pause a moment reader, because what you are about to hear next is quite heart-rending. I am the omniscient narrator and will appear when you see brackets, but we now have Chris, the friend that Pete has made at Fulbrook Middle School, and he is about to tell you the saddest part of Pete's story.) Pete was there in Sandy with no job and with a wife and child, and a mortgage to pay, when the headmaster of the local middle school, who had read about the sacking because it was in the local papers, rang him up and said that he was a teacher short because one of his colleagues had died suddenly from a heart attack, and would Pete like to take over the class that had suddenly been left without anyone to teach them? 'And Pete, told me, his new friend Chris, that he had said yes, yes, of course he would, and started at the school the next week and wholeheartedly embraced the lifebelt he had been thrown by Mr Donnison, the headmaster, and worked and worked at the new job, and made some mistakes, he told me, because who doesn't? but was eventually given a full contract by Mr Donnison, who had read about his sacking in the newspaper and who had offered the life-line. (But dark forces were gathering for Pete, reader, and Chris could see before he said it, what he was going to tell him, so I will let him do the telling because he was a good friend of Pete and will tell it properly. What did he tell you Chris, what was it?)'What did he tell me? Well, what he told me was that his pretty wife had met a man in Sandy who was not a bit like Pete, but was confident and well-groomed, and very financially secure, which Pete wasn't, although he did have a job, and the wife had been spending time with this man, unbeknown to Pete, and had been away with him when Pete thought she was at her mother's, and Pete had never really thought that such a thing was possible, had thought that it was the stuff of soap operas, and anyway he liked looking after Becky, his daughter, whenever his wife was away. 'But, it wasn't just the stuff of soap, operas, it was real life, it was real, nasty, gritty life, and so Pete told me, his new friend Chris, that they were one day in Bournemouth to see his father-in-law, who patently had never really liked Pete and had called him John or Dave or anything other than who he was. 'Anyway, on that one day, Pete told me, his wife, who was the driver, Pete didn't, had suddenly pulled the car over to the side of the road and burst into tears and told him between sobs that she was having an affair, and that she was in love, and that there was nothing Pete could do about it because she was leaving and taking their daughter with her, and that she was going to live with the man with whom she was having the affair. (They had worked it all out, reader.)' Pete told me, his new friend, Chris, that he had gone into a state of shock there in the car, but that there was nothing he could do. Just like there was nothing his Dad could do about the illness that had killed him, there was nothing Pete could do about the woman, his wife, who no longer wanted him, so he had got out of the car and walked away. Well, was it a soap opera reader? you tell me, because now I am no longer Chris, Pete's friend, no I am not he, no I am now the omniscient narrator, without the brackets, like George Eliot, who loved even her least likeable characters, such as Rosamond Vincey and Mr Bulstrode, I am the author, the writer, the singer, the teller of stories, the seafarer, the wayfarer, the shape shifter, the creator, the dancer, the healer the restorer, the life-giver, because you know reader that in spite of all that had happened to him, Pete did not die, no he did not. No, he got better, and better, much better. And I have told you this, his story because I loved him, and there is a flawed cracked Japanese bowl in our picture today and the flaw has been mended without disguising the original crack, and I think this is true, reader, of many of our lives, it is certainly true of Pete's. EndThat cracked Japanese bowl is an incredible symbol, Alice. A bit more of your magic. Thanks.

I have divided my map into 8 parts: Very, very important, Sue and BeckyVery important, my mate, Chris and my sister, ShirleyAre, or have been, important in my movement from Pete and Viv to just Pete. Some have dropped away like Gwyn and Joan whom I met in Hay-on-Wye when I was lonely, and who befriended me. It was sort of funny because I met them there again every year with another girlfriend for about four years, but they never said anything, just enjoyed my company… They are in their eighties now and might even be dead. I don't know Relatives, people who care about me like my brother Paul and his wife and Sue's sister, Pip, and her husbandSchool and college friends who I still keep in touch withGroups that I belong to for work and leisure, like my students and the Milton Keynes Quakers (Friends), where I first planned this list in a an unusually completely 'silent' Meeting. Maybe it was just for me because the Meeting knew where I was and what I needed from it, and they gave their silence to me. [If I could explain a little about this, Friends or uakers started in the C17 and have a completely alternative view of religion. Sue's Mum was a Quaker and Sue went sometimes to the Oxford Meeting. When I knew she did this I asked if I could go with her. Since moving to Buckingham, and after I retired we started going to Milton Keynes Quakers together, though she doesn't go as much as I do. They are what I call 'nice people', like the ESREA group and the walking group, and there is a strange connection between the last two, a sort of serendipity, which I will tell you about if I ever meet you. Gosh Alice, isn't life interesting sometimes! Buckingham friends in the local area. Like our neighbours who are a new couple with Clare's daughter Ruby (7), who spends alternate weekends with her Dad, and Darren, who was not involved with the end of Clare's marriage, but who met her because he was the removal man who moved her here. And Darren builds Clare things with his hands and his arms, which are strong and tattooed, and he is practical and can fix things, and he loves her, and I think he loves Ruby, too. And love is Important, yes it is… New friends at ESREA. like Linden There are at least five more stories here but I can't tell them now, because I'll never stop. There is also one other friend who strangely is not on the map) Arthur, the American guy from an earlier story about going to The USA in 1970 with Tony and Gill, and whose part in my story is vital to my regeneration, rebirth. I will find a way to tell it reader, I will find a way, but not now. 'We'll see, ' as I used to say to Becky, which she knew meant no, but I might tell you because you are a good listener, and if it is meant to happen it will. Child Daddy, tell me the story please. D: Which one? Child Which one! You know the one you always said you would tell me when I was older, the one about you going to America? D If I can find it. I don't think I can. Child Yes you can. Daddy Pllleeease. it's in the loft. I remember you put it there. Go up and get it, please. D: I can't. It means getting the ladder out and I don't really feel up to it. Child Yes, you can, Daddy, yes you can. Anyway, if you can't do it I can. I'm nearly thirteen now and just as strong as you, (She flexes biceps)D. No you're not, you're tweive and you're too young. You won't like the story. It's not really for youChild Well can I see it when I'm thirteen. I will be in two weeks. D We'll see. Child Oh you always say that, (sulking) We'll see just means no. I'm going to bed. D But we haven't… She ignores him and leaves the room petulantly. In the night she waits for him to fall asleep and takes the ladder quietly upstairs. At least he is not with his girlfriend tonight, Iris that big boned woman with the two odd children, Adrian and Tracey. She doesn't like Iris. She places the ladder against the loft lintel, climbs up carefully, opens the trapdoor and goes into the loft. Then, switching on the torch she has brought with her, she opens the suitcase and takes out the notebook. Using the light from her torch she reads the story. I have now found the story, reader, which wasn't in the loft at all, but I'll put it in here now because it's interesting to see the different styles of writing, and it will appear that she read it in the loft. The American Journey. leyland. pdf

Response to Day 6 PromptMy inner feminine is related to a great extent to my mother. It was she who got me reading and through this I could become anyone I wanted. Mum was a great fan of Anne of reen Gables, being a bit of a tomboy herself, and from Anne I graduated to What Katy Did by Susan Coolidge and because I had found her myself I loved Katy more. Katy was an adventurous girl, always dreaming of rescuing people and I wanted to do this with her. When she fell from the swing which she had been forbidden by her Aunt Izzy I was devastated. For weeks she lay as her injured spine corrected itself and the message was that Katy was being brave. I realise now that I must have absorbed this message about femininity, that being a girl and then a woman was that you had to be brave, you had to cope. This of course was reinforced as I watched my mother coping with Dad's multiple sclerosis. She watched the man she had married for security and who had created three children with her dying before her eyes. She had to be brave did Mum. It was a lesson I learned too. When Viv had left I said to Becky we have to be brave. I really meant I did, not her, for she was going with Viv to a new life. I had to cope without them. She was four. Another traditionally feminine side is vulnerability, although men feel it too and boy did it happen to me. But I just had to keep on being brave, going to work and coming home. It was like being an actor, performing and then collapsing backstage. Men need to hide that vulnerability from the world. The feminine side wants to weep, and writing and performing poetry helped me do that acceptable weeping. But to return to my theory of reading, inspired by Mum, great writers can make us live in their characters and become them. I am thinking particularly of George Eliot and Middlemarch where I became both Lydgate and Dorothea, the two idealists. Lydgate betraying himself because he wanted a pretty wife, and Dorothea, oh what a story. I was with Dorothea as she married Casaubon because she looked up to him and his great learning. And then she found it was nothing and the terrible realisation coming to her in Rome on her honeymoon that her marriage was a dreadful mistake. But she was lucky he died and she was free to marry Will, although if Eliot had dared she could have just let Dorothea be free. Art can transform us (men), it can help us reach our feminine side. I always think that if Raoul Moat had been able to appreciate poetry he would not have shot his girlfriend, killed her lover and also a policeman and then himself. I would have shown him, It may not always be so, where cummings speaks of renunciation. If she doesn't want you let her go… 'Then shall i turn my face, and hear one bird/sing terribly afar in the lost lands. 'Ha, I have woken up thinking about my feminine qualities. Looking after a baby, that must be one surely? So I watched my mother bringing my sister into the world while all around her was crumbling, and here was an example of nurturing that I learned, so when Bex was born it was easy for me to nurture her, to give her that five o' clock in the morning bottle feed, to bath her and to read to her each night. And of course changing her and washing her nappies with Viv how could I forget the bucket under the sink (no wonder she left canned laughter) and those billowing sails on the line? And now I see Dan doing it all with Bex's children. So does the masculine become feminine? Looking again at the notes, What is my truth? I thought it was this once but maybe it was my lie… More, more, more… Well it is good to have this rest. I have now been able to read about Cixous and escriture feminine which was suggested to me when I was researching for my paper at Aarhus, but my tutor, Wilma, thought it was too involved for me to get into: 'The female writer is seen as suffering the handicap of having to use a medium (prose writing) which is essentially a male instrument fashioned for male purposes. ' One might imagine this statement could provoke lively discussion. The piece then goes on to say that e f can be employed by male authors such as Joyce. I expect she is thinking of Molly Bloom's soliloquy in Ulysses. '. and first I put my arms around him yes and drew him down to me so he could feel my breasts all perfume yes and his heart was going like mad and yes I said yes I will Yes. ' A few literary examples are given at the end but nothing on Pat Barker. For a prose account of female suffering I would recommend Union Street (1982) a fictional account of male physical and sexual violence towards women in the North East. Great writers can put you there, you are the characters, and Barker does this. The book was recommended to me by a student when we were reading The Ghost Road. A memory of domestic violenceThe scene is the dining room. They are sitting either side of the fireplace. There is a pot of tea on the small table between them. Peter Do you remember the hall carpet, Mum? Mum Yes? Peter How Mrs Keffard spilt the sausage and chips over it? Mum MmmmPeter It was new wasn't it? Mum Yes, it was. Peter I remember there being an awful stain. What had happened? Mum Her oven had gone off and she had asked me to heat it up for her in time for her husband coming back. Peter He was a policeman wasn't he? Mum Yes, he was. Peter And why did she drop the tray? Mum She wanted to get back to the house in time for him. I think she tripped. Peter She was worried, then? Mum Yes, she was frightened. Peter You weren't angry about the carpet? Mum No, I felt sorry for her. He was a bully. PausePeter And what happened to her? Mum She left in the end, taking the children. I think she went to her mother's. Peter It was Lorraine and Stephen. I remember them. They were a bit younger than us… Pause they drink tea, lifting cups from saucersPeter Is he still there? Mum Yes, he got married again. She is nice. I think she knows how to handle him. She got shopping for me once when I was ill. Peter And what about Mrs. Keffard? Mum Oh, she got married again tooEnd

Transformational Encounters A Poem Notes about writing the poem: The Muses are the inspirational goddesses of literature, science and the arts in Greek Mythology. They were considered the source of the knowledge embodied in the poetry, lyric songs and myths that were later adopted by the Romans as part of their pantheon. (Cite Wikipedia). My Muse is magical, unknown, but all encompassing. My Muse has shown me how to write thie poem. In Every Object is the Story of My LifeIn every object is the story of my life: A car key, lost once and found, A jacket, left behind and run after with, holding it out: 'Here's your jacket, your jacket. No I didn't know it was your favourite one. 'The soft grey oneSoftGreyOld now but not wornNot wornIn fact, very unwornAnd today brand new. Other things too numerous to mentionAll telling a story. Some people can't connect. I have met some I likedAnd have tried men, women to connectBut they said, NoNot nowNot nowAnd maybe not ever. But some doSome want toSome smile and say, 'Just for this moment in timeI want to connect with you. 'Just for this moment in timeThis moment. And somewhere in a coffee shop, perhapsWhere books lean in, like old/young men and womenUpon shelvesThere is a sound, a faint soundWhich you can barely hear, And there is music and there is talking and laughter. And there is also sadness in the half-heard sounds. But then l looked at you and smiledAnd you smiledAnd you were not so sad, Not sad. Later on, thinking about: James JoyceGeorge EliotJack KerouacAnd then on the streetWhere I now sit down To write my poem, We will connect againAnd talk maybe of everything our lovers, friends, our lives. Our lives: 'In every object is the story of my life. 'Every objectMy storyMy lifeAnd you will hear itAnd embrace meAnd I will embrace you. 12/95/17The poem should be read aloud as a performance piece. And a suitable piece of music played suddenly but in the distance, like that coming from a mobile phone, after 'half-heard sounds'. 7. 10pmWorking on the rhythm by reading it aloud to myself. It must be read aloud. I'm alternating between the PC, the iPad, three 'fair copies' and the original rough drafts in my blue notebook, which I had in the coffee bar. 8. 30pmThis poem is based upon events of the past week, all linked to something that really happened. Sue read it and didn't like the sadness so I put laughter back in, having taken it out. She was right, we must have laughter. 4. 30amMy sister has just emailed me from Cambodia and she is in distress about the world she has to deal with there. She has been reading RS Thomas and wants to share that with me. We are very close. I will be there for her all day tomorrow. I am on a quite extraordinary emotional journey right now because of the Project. TransformativeIt is good for me. 5. 30Listening to From a Distance by Nanci Griffiths, amazing when she clenches her fists and sings'From a distance I can't comprehend/What all this war is for. 'I can't either and just for a moment the anguish in her face transcends the performance she is giving for an audience. Ask Alice to put the song in my notesGet a photo and put on EvernoteBut you can't go around embracing the whole world Peter. Why not, why can't I? Because you're not Jesus, you know that don't you? Can I be a bit if Jesus and help Shirl? Of course you can. Just wait and it will happen. Take it easy as Alice said 12. 15pmI have helped my sister. 1. 08. This is a picture of her, with strawberry blonde hair, a Leyland feature, though she is now Sinclair. My daughter has it and I used to, long and touching my shoulders. I have a wedding photo somewhere. In this photo Shirl is with her best friend, Roz, and two good looking Italian guys they have met on holiday. Later, returning to Liverpool, and Roz was doing her own thing, Shirl got to Milan Station. She had missed her train and the station was closing at midnight. A guard offered her a bed in his office nearby. Shirl trusted him and spent the night there. She awoke at 6am and everything was okay. She was 23. I have helped her today by listening. Like me she suffers from chronic anxiety, learned from our Mum, I think. My brother doesn't suffer from it, but he doesn't have strawberry blonde hair, nor incidentally did Mum or Dad. Was it a fault in the genes, not in the stars, I think that Mendel, monk, had something to do with discovering this. Shirl is a committed Christian but doesn't throw it in your face. She is married and has two lovely children who were educated largely in Cambodia. She went to Cambodia, after Mum had died, freeing her from the inevitable only daughter responsibility. She was about 33 and had finally moved away from Mum to live independently, and be a warden at a Liverpool University hostel. She had got an English Lit degree from there. WhenMum then died she was free to live her dream and go to help people in Cambodia to develop themselves after the genocide there. Today I listened to her and, while her anxiety did not disappear, it was lessened. Listened -Lessened. She told me today that she was looking for 'a pearl of great price. ' We discussed this but she couldn't really define what it meant to her. She knows it from the bible but I know it from Shakespeare's Othello about Desdemona who was murdered for her supposed infidelity. I think 'the pearl of great price' is her ideal about the world, life, family. I share this dream. 'From a distance I can't comprehend what all this war is for. ' Nanci Griffiths, giving a sometimes anguished performance of a friend's song. A Learning Curve, a short play with one act and two scenesScene 1The scene is a room, organised for a psychotherapy session. Ten chairs are set round in a circle and in the centre are two chairs set back to back. One is occupied by a man with a beard, the other is empty. Peter is the first to arrive. It is 5 o'clock on a Monday after his work as a teacher in a Middle School has finished. He is feeling nervous as it is the first session he has attended. Peter (Cheerfully) HelloAndrew, (the man with the beard) sits very still saying nothing. After a moment Peter sits down in a chair feeling nonplussed. A moment later two other people, a man and a woman come in and sit on other chairs. Two more women come in and sit down near each other, both are smartly dressed. The woman who came in with the man is in her twenties and is called Sara. Voice: Yalom says that patients will begin to display their maladaptive interpersonal behaviour in the group; there is no need to describe their pathology: they will sooner or later act it out before the group members own eyes. Peter (brightly) This is my first time here. I'm PeterAn Indian woman in a sari now comes in and sits on the other chair in the centre. A man with glasses follows her and sits in one of the other chairs in the circle. John sorry I'm late. It's the traffic. Peter (eagerly) Yes, I know Bedford's always bad at this time. I had to… Sara (cutting him off) I always think of the stables and the land. It was going to be mine. Cynthis (one of the two women who came in together) You always say that, Sara, Didn't you know what was going to happen? Sara looks annoyed but remains silent. The silence continues. Peter, to the group. I'm new. Can you tell me what happens here? Sara, (ignoring him) The land it was mine and the horses. Peter (trying again) What are your names? I'm PeterCarol, I'm CarolMan with glasses, I'm David, (gesturing to the two chairs) They never say anything, they just listen, Peter, Oh, I see. One of the smartly dressed women, (trying to fill the silence) Like I said, I'm Carol. I work st the collegePeter, Oh yes I know it. I did a course there once. (He focuses on her) Why are you here then? Carol, oh I've had problems at work and in my relationship What about you? Peter, Oh yes, I've had relationship problems too. I got divorced about twelve years ago and can't seem to get married again. I've had a few girlfriends, though, chuckling to himself as if he is a man of the world. Sara, So you got divorced, well that happens to a lot of peoplePeter, Yes I know but… Sara, Some of you men are pathetic, always moaning about being hurtSylvia (who has not spoken yet), oh leave him alone, Sara, he's new here. Peter, (reassuring himself) Yes, I'll have to… Sara (withdraws into herself) I just remember about the land, that's allPeter, (trying to be helpful) What happened about the land then, Sara? Can you tell us? Sara. (looking angry at this suggestion of intimacy) No I don't want to tell you, and they've heard it all before anyway. (she is becoming tearfu)First man, to the Indian woman, 'Why don't you say something if he won't? ' (nodding towards Andrew)The psychotherapists sit silently, moving only slightly to shift their weight. Voice: Yalom says on page 96 that they learned also that though one could be close to others there was nonetheless a point beyond which one could not be accompanied: there is a basic aloneness to existence that must be faced and cannot be avoided. Peter, Get better. I will get better. First Man, I'm happily married. I just can't seem to see the point of things and no- one seems able to help me, no-one, not these two (indicating the psychotherapists), not anyone. Peter, But we can, isn't that the point. We can help each other, isn't that why we're here? No-one says anything. They all sit in silence for about ten minutes. Finally The Indian woman announces that the session is at an end. They get up and put the chairs to the sides of the room, some of them say a few words to each other. Peter goes as if to talk to Carol and then decides not to. Gradually all go out through the door singly. But if you smile at me, you know I will understand, plays softly in the background as the session comes to an end. Scene 2Peter has been going to the group now for two years. He has got used to going on a Monday, coming home, getting supper, watching something like Brushstrokes on T. V. And then going swimming at Stantonbury Campus with his best friend Chris. They have now been doing this for 12 years and, although they talk a lot to each other as they swim up and down the pool about the week's events, Peter has said very little about the psychotherapy sessions. After a session he talks to Andrew about leaving the group. Andrew, There is a way of leaving groups. I'd like you to come for two or three more sessions and tell them you want to leave. Peter, Yes, Sara left abruptly didn't she? Andrew, Sara had many problems. You have started to solve yours. After you leave, in about six months time I'll write to you inviting you to come back here and talk to me, to see how you are. Peter, Oh the good old NHS! (Laughing)Andrew (smiles) Yes, good bye now. We'll see you next week and you can start leaving. Voice: Yalom says that termination is, after all, a part of every relationship, and throughout one's life one must on many occasions, say goodbye to important people. The scene ends and Peter goes out of the building, accompanied by the song, Because of You, sung by Dexy's Midnight Runners, the theme tune of Brushsrokes. End4. 25 Today we are going to Paul and Sue, my brother for a break. They live in Hunmanby, North Yorkshire. When we were little Mum and Dad used to bring us to Filey, near Hunmsanby for walking holidays. We stayed at a house on the front with other families. A 'host' would be elected both to lead the walks and organise social events at the house. One day near the end of one of the walks Dad started stumbling and falling down. Two men from the group got either side of him and he put his arms over their shoulders. They helped him walk back to the house. It was about a mile. I now know that this was the beginning of his multiple sclerosis.

I knew somehow I would have to survive. I didn't want to die. I felt like it but I didn't want to. Suddenly the heavens opened and it rained cats, dogs, goats, monkeys, giraffes, even elephants… Funny – you have lightness and laughter as well as depth and sensitivity we all need these qualities and balance to survive!!! Valuing each element equally and with joy! J ‘… and we got the children inside, and some of them were crying and very frightened, and I knew I had to protect them so I went into the mother role which I am quite good at because I had seen my own mother do it, and I enclosed them together inside the lean-to, as I imagine a mother would, although I didn't think about it, it just happened. ’… When I got home to an empty house I wrote this poem, or it wrote me. I didn't even think about it, it just came out. This is the aha moment. 'Keep on keeping on'. J ‘And, by the way reader your story was pretty good too and it helps me that you show me how we can say things to each other, deep things, that are hard to discuss in talking, especially for men, and I know you don't really mind about the 'bleeding heart stuff'… this is So true Peter – is so important to share who we really are! J Sylvia Longstaff I’ve heard of her… I need to look her up! J The American journey had helped, but now he was out there again, a bit recovered but not quite yet, he had to learn a few more things. She said no, not because she didn't like him, but because she was fed up with men and needed time to recover from her 'hurt heart'… Happy fun men in raincoats JPeters sense of humour and joy and his realization of his own appeal and beauty America to Ireland! Back packs – resources of life… what would you put in your backpack now if that was all you could take on with you? Beautiful photos of texture, testimony and light… ‘A Sense of Freedom, reader, that's what I learned; to be free to be beautiful and romantic and loving’ YES! Thank you Alice. Sylvia Longstaff ran Longstaff Leisure from a beautiful house in Buckden in the Yorkshire Dales, near Kettlewell, one of my favourite places. Although it was run for singles, her primary aim was not to match people up, nor could it be, for the ratio of men to women, and I am not ignoring gay people here it just wasn't an issue, was about 6 14 (roughly 20 in all from what I can remember.)So when I stupidly said to one of the women that it was 'like being in a sweetshop' I was roundly condemned by her and was probably lucky not to get 'a punch in the gob' as we say in Liverpool. But she let me off because most women, I think, are kind, but after all she had paid the same money as me and it wasn't fair really. Unless actually you were looking for something else, which I wasn't, but still didn't know I wasn't, still wanted that elusive feminine embrace. Sylvia was good with people who were looking for something else and did dance and movement classes with us and took us for walks, and for swimming together in the local pool (with jacuzzi) and told us about Feel the Fear… by Susan Jeffers, and invited a woman to talk to us about clothes/colour matching, and had a Christmas Morning where we all came down in our dressing gowns and opened presents from home. And where Pete and Pete (who had a Lamborghini) pretended to be Italian waiters and romanced the women, Pete, the one without the Lamborghini, and wearing a natty waistcoat, romancing Ramona, yes Romancing Ramona who was from South America, that sounds good doesn't it reader? And they became friends, not lovers, no lovers was for Pete with The Lamborghini who romanced Jill, and took her away in The Lamborghini at the end of the holiday to somewhere where they probably had great sex, and maybe are having great sex even now, I don't know. And am I being ironic reader? Yes, I am. The Pete without the Lamborghini couldn't get enough of Longstaff Leisure and Sylvia knew it and said, 'It is working for you isn't it? ' and Pete WTL said yes and came again for a third visit and met Barbara, but you already know the result of that one, don't you reader? Yes, there he got the metaphorical punch in the gob from Barbara, whether he deserved it or not I just don't know, but any way the gods forgave him for upsetting the goddesses as I will tell you: On his fourth visit to Longstaff Leisure Pete went cautiously and danced pleasantly with Ann, who told him she had met someone through a group called Nexus, and that they were going to be married but she had already booked this holiday so had come anyway… And so Pete, who was by now becoming a bit more canny in these matters of the single life, when he got home found out about his local Nexus and joined it and started going to Nexus parties. Which is where, after about a year, he met Sue. Bottle of wine please for Ann, or perhaps two bottles or even three, and if we want to become metaphysical, reader, let's give her an ocean of wine for telling Pete about Nexus, yes an ocean.. 'A flask of wine, a book of verse and thou'And Sue as you sit beside me wearing your jade earings and looking at me with your loveliness, I am so grateful to Ann, and Sylvia, and Pete, and Ramona, and Barbara, and even The Lamborghini for leading me to you. All now reader. Need a break. Hope you're laughing…

The Longest Journey. Different ways through artistic filters. One boy getting out of another boy's pool. A what? Would it have been rape had he succeeded? I suppose it would. Perhaps I just couldn't cope with the idea of being fancied by a gay man. Despite, reader, being somewhat proud of my feminine type sensibilities? I learn to dance away from my sadness. Dance provides me with exercise, bodily movement, that is touching or avoiding other people. It can be playful which I love being. All dancing in our huge skirts and feeling free. I loved it. I like playing roles. Teacher. Teacher. Teacher. Always a Teachers. Healer Teachers. Last week, for some reason, I got talking to Emilie in the paper shop about writing poetry. I sense that Emillie is in a liminal state, being between girl and woman. Perhaps she will turn into a butterfly… The MK shopping centre is lovely, and don't be put off by stories of concrete cows, Pete I was there stayed in the Travelodge the night of Mat 28th and saw two!!! Glad to hear that. What were the two concrete Cows doing then? Strolling around, looking for love? Dancing in big skirts and dancing through life as a journey – what danceswaltz, tango, shuffle… A day that started well just got better.

Resources of HopeThe Summer of Love. 1967. Response to FACT I have really felt the longing to be a published writer of anything: stories, articles, poems, novels, plays, autobiographies, biographies. I have kept everything I have ever written. I have found the courage to be real. Why does it matter so much? And I don't know the answer to that, but it did. The Unfortunates sounds an interesting form… future developments to pick up on maybe at a later point in the project thematically. I work a lot like these in my filmmaking approaches- -Phase 2! J ‘I would like my autobiographical narrative to consist of fragments to be assembled/disassembled in a similar fashion because I think that's what memory is fragments that can be re-assembled. ‘I feel lighter, less burdened by it.’ The mosaic, the tiled floor made up of hundreds of tiny pieces, all fitting together to make the final picture. Shaun McNiff is an arts psychotherapist who talks about Art as Medicine. Once I made a medicine bowl – a paper mache bowl made out of the fragments of a story that I needed to transmute… I then painted the bowl over the top of the words in beautiful colours… I knew what ‘lay beneath’ but everyone else could experience the beauty and usefulness of its transformation… Remided me of your reassemblages… mosaic tiles, reconfigured narrative fragments… Did it work, my multiple narrative layers, my mosaic life-floor? Yes it is a brilliant Phase 1 foundation for development J ‘I have transformed my own life purposes, because, whatever happens next in the Project, I will never forget this journey I have been on over the 21 days, just as I never forgot the acid trip I went on in the 60s which is recounted earlier.’ I hope as a result to become a better person, writer, husband, father, friend, lover, brother, colleague, teacher, pupil, all the roles we might assign ourselves in life. I would like to link my experiences through literature, to seek out some kind of ‘universal truth’, (assemblage) that art can improve our human lot… Response to NoticingsReally liked the papier-mâché bowl, Alice. This looks like an amazing achievement of yours. Bowls are always fantastic symbols. There's one somewhere in The Rubyat of Omar Khayam, about the potter's wheel. Here's one from T. S. Eliot: 'My words echo/Thus, in your mind. But to what purpose/Disturbing the dust on a bowl of rose-leaves/I do not know. ' (Burnt Norton)Have now read about Sean McNiff in Cambridge Massachusetts. Have been there once in 1970 but don't remember much about it. That was American Trip 1. The really strange thing is that In July I'm visiting Arthur, whom I haven't seen for thirty five years, American Trip 2, in New York with Sue for his son's wedding! American Trip 3!

1970 – 2017. 47 years later at the Palm House in Liverpool and amazing thing happened… I finally flew out to see [Bex’s] baby [and] it was good. I held him and danced with him singing. Viv Bex Sue and I. The emotions of falling and falling out. Departures. Arrivals. I was frightened. The past touches me in a dream. Supervised confinement. Bex and Viv. Pleasure and Pain. I choose to look at it. Me too. Woman as a world from which we enter and return. The red arrows. Memory. Dead and birth and rebirth. 'What a piece of work is man… '‘… in spite of that space in the rain when we had run together from the villa to the bus, and I had looked at her and we were laughing… Joy.

I shop in Waitrose. I have napkins nice stripy ones 😉 Where does that place me socio-economically – not in Aldi 😃 Was I always Waitrose when Bex’s was little? In the 60’s… Based on the song 'Melting Pot' by Blue Mink (1969) which embodies the optimism of the 60s, which I have not yet lost. spaghetti was the long kind in the blue wrapper which is now difficult to get. I think it is the only meal I have ever actually 'invented', as it were. Oh yes, there is always. Cheddar cheese on top, no Parmesan then, or as I used to call it 'parmesian' which always used to annoy her 'Oh, Daddy! ' I can still hear it. This is Peters Plate…????????! PS. I didn't have wine when I was cooking it for Becky. And what is for pudding then…? 5E1519E2-FE19-4133-8CA1-36909B7AC29B. pdfI can't remember. I will ask her tomorrow. Yes, you got it right, Alice, you have won an ocean of wine! Well doneWho else in the story deserves an ocean of wine.? The answer is connected to Sylvia Longstaff and the special place she created at her house in BuckdenThe prize for this kid is a look at Emma Temperley's version of the Mad Hatter's Tea Party which was performed with Shadow puppets on 4th July. Emma was 11Well, Alice you got the prize before you got the answer but that's normal in Alice in Wonderland stories, isn't it? The answer to the pudding question is choc-ices.

Peter L: They are what I call 'nice people', like the ESREA group and the walking group, and there is a strange connection between the last two, a sort of serendipity, which I will tell you about if I ever meet you. Gosh Alice, isn't life interesting sometimes! Aha Moments… 'We'll see, ' as I used to say to Becky, which she knew meant no, but I might tell you because you are a good listener, and if it is meant to happen it will. Child Yes, you can, Daddy, yes you can. Anyway, if you can't do it I can. I'm nearly thirteen now and just as strong as you, (She flexes biceps) In the night she waits for him to fall asleep and takes the ladder quietly upstairs. She places the ladder against the loft lintel, climbs up carefully, opens the trapdoor and goes into the loft. Then, switching on the torch she has brought with her, she opens the suitcase and takes out the notebook. Using the light from her torch she reads the story. When I was a little girl just like Bex’s I could also be inquisitive and just a little bit naughty – for how else to we learn and how else to we see inside the mind of the father… I remember climbing up on a stool balanced on top of my parent’s chest of draws with my friend and hiding because we didn’t want to stop playing and we got covered in fiberglass and had to spend hours soaking afterwards in the bath thoroughly chided!!!! When I was little my Dad used to read us stories ‘with his mouth’ – my sisters and I used to say – no Daddy not a book a story from your mouth… my favourite was ‘The Giants Walking Stick’ based on my Grandfather and ‘thumb sticks he made’ and our adventures in the woods of Devon finding Wild Cats nests, paddling in streams and getting leeches sticking onto our ankles… collecting ‘ragwort’ to stop the donkeys getting poisoned – happy carefree summer holiday years… and we’d often fall asleep half way Dads stories with memories of him softly stroking our hair as we drifted off listening to his words for the story only to be picked up again the next night… He is now a ‘Storyteller’ – he’s still alive Peter – you would like to meet him! And we all also once went to Quakers… love ‘The Storytellers Daughter’! Wow, fantastic that you are telling me this, Alice. I would like to meet your Dad and I do love the Quaker meetings, although not yet a member, and I joined their book group, and Jennifer asked if I would run their book group and I felt honoured and have run it for four years, trying to get the best from every one's reading, and one of the best so far, which I loved and I emailed the author to say so and he was pleased, was The Good Doctor by Damon Galgut. 'P. Thanks Alice. I have edited this out. Sometimes one can go too deep. 'To me the meanest flower that blows can give/Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears. ' (W. W.)Too f***ing sensitive again. Aren't we all?

Peter L: Hormonal Soup. Liminal Adolescence. Cerise coloured coat. (I thought people only smuggled out Penthouse in ‘The Mirror’, in films…;)Many-coloured inksThe special pen with the six barrels, which rotated. Pen friends. P – on your wheel I wasn’t sure which sections related to which ‘zone’ Does it start with Creativity as the big ‘green’ wedge and then follow round? LoveFunPhysical ActivityPersonal GrowthFamilyFriendsLearning. Helping Others. Re-author. Harvest At 15! Hopefully it was The GuardianDo you think she knew what I had done and let me off?

She was talking about the strange sound world that us hard of hearing people inhabit. The acid trip, and the day went on and night came and we lay down together on the floor under some blankets. So then I went to America. I went round Times Square which was full of hard core 'girlie' mags and film booths with men in dark glasses on high stools behind the counters, and I was drawn to it but at the same time I was sickened. And she had cried on the platform at Waterloo when I said that I didn't want to see her again and just wanted to be free. Like a dog without a boneYou could just listen, don't make any judgements. Sometimes that's all any of us need, Pete. Could you give me a hug, please. I hope you liked the way your story was heavily interwoven with the others in our Group Noticing/feedback of Days 8 and m9… I think the ‘Magpie’ response of Participant 8 to all our stories was particularly beautiful as a group ‘return’… 😃 I like the way you refer to and play with your ‘reader’ to draw us into ‘relationship’ with your stories and words… ‘Actually need things to calm me down rather than hype me up’ ‘Sounds confused’ Lady Pharoah was better for me because she was stately and beautiful. Lady Madonna… Anne had such lovely hair and wore that red dress… like Kate Bush… later on in our postings… Viv was pretty, and so reader, I married her. Rescuing women – candle cake and eating it… ‘The world's not always such a bad place. Pete Now you sound like my mother.’ I like your counsellor/Pete dialogue and how you held each other at the end. I like also how you jump out of your inner world into your exterior world and shopping and rain and dinner… Sacred and the profane… profanely sacred… Little touches of life. The inner light…

Peter L: OMG Pete she has listened to you and she has heard your voice, and it is 1. 51. They were in control and they kissed us fiercely. Magpie it is Malc you are bringing him to me in the photo and he was my best friend and we shared everything. She had dark curly hair and a blue coat. She was round and soft like girls are, and I had seen Gilbo hitting her with his bag at Atlantic House waiting for the bus, in her uniform with her green beret, pinned at the sides with clips. And Gilbo wore a jacket with THEM written on the back in thick blue pen. But I ended it from the phone box at the top of the road. But Gill wanted Dave, Gill who was attractive and who wrote funny plays about tampons and being a woman and performed them with a friend at the workshop. You will have to wait now Magpie if you want to hear about it because I'm tired and I seem to be writing the novel that I always wanted to write so fly away please. What is marriage? And do tell me more about the recording… Prompted by Alice's individual Noticings for Day 10 Seed DispersalSometimes I would meet you after schoolAnd we would walk together hand in handDown the long avenue of chestnut trees. There was the river; a silver ribbonCaught glittering amongst the autumn leaves, As though I'd lost it somewhere on the wayAnd you had hung it there for me to find. Often you stopped, with your little fingersGathered the tiniest wild white flowers, And reached up insistently to press them In my pocket. I found a clump of linden, Showing you the seeds' small parachutes; Those that the wind would blow down from the trees, That might be blown from our hands if we breathed. 25/09/1980She is wondering about marriage, will she ever make a successful one and how can she keep a record of her life that will help her make sense of it? She has just produced a beautiful book of photographs for her Dad about him and her, and Sue and Dan and her children, for his birthday. She has made a lovely marriage that works and has just held a party for 23 children at her new/old house in Farnham. She had lived in China and Malaysia for ten years with Dan, having Alastair 5 years ago and Tamar one year ago. She is nearly 41 years old, next month. She went to Christchurch college in Oxford where she did s psychology degree. She worked in Human Resources for Shell but now just wants to be a mother. Her mother, Vivien Rothwell, then Leyland, then Monaghan, now Dicks, is sometimes Keera Highes. She left Becky's stepfather, Peter Monsghsn, (whose name, reader I can still hardly say, and who I wanted to murder, yes murder, like Othello wanted to murder Cassio because he mistakenly thought Cassio was fucking his wife, and reader I am sorry to use that word, but we do use it when we are angry) she Vivien who left Peter Leyland and who had left Peter Monaghan ten years ago for Alan and married him. He is/was also an accountant and Peter Leyland gets on with him because he is 'Blokey''. He and Viv/Keira moved to Minehead in Somerset to be near Dan's parents. Becky loves Dan's Mum and likes to stay there. Viv/Keera Highes was 15 when Peter met her on a beach in St Ives, Cornwall. She lived with her Dad, Alan, in Bournemouth. He was an alcoholic. Viv/Keira Highes's Mum, who had had an illegitimate baby, June, when she was 16, and who worked in a mill in Oldham, had met Alan, who had rescued her with the baby. He had married her but when Viv came along he sent June to live with her grandma, Viv's Mum was also called Marjorie, but there the similarity ends, because this Marjorie had never been a tomboy like my Mum but was working class and was warm and loved easily, perhaps once too easily, because she had had June, the illegitimate baby. But she had moved with Alan to Bournemouth because it was 'posher' for want of a better word, than Oldham. And when Peter met Viv she lived with Alan in Bournemouth, who now had custody of her, because her Mum had left him for Pat, a Greek Waiter, because Alan was violent in his alcoholism to her and Marjorie was soft and warm and wanted to be loved so she left Alan and she left Viv. (Poor Viv, reader, yes I am beginning to understand her). And so there was Alan and Viv, and there was me, and she could escape from Bournemouth to Finchley with me and tell her friends that she was seeing a man in London. She was 16, still wearing her beret, not very old, but she was sexy, and he liked that and he was lost in her, utterly lost. 'Nothing else is' in John Donne's words and he was studying English Literature in London so what can you expect? Sex, yes, there was lots of that, because he was 19 and, well, when you're 19 and a man you can't think about much else, honestly reader, you can't, except your books and your poetry. So she lived with him for six months in Finchley and neither of them could deal with that really, especially when the man of the couple they lived with touched her knee under the table and the wife noticed and brought down the roof on them, and Peter heard Neave saying, 'I'm sorry, Sandy, ' in the bedroom next door to theirs and crying, and Peter thought 'Oh my God, what have I done. ' You know reader he was beginning to realise that this sex thing might be a bit double edged, but let's not laugh at him too hard, reader, for he did suffer for it in the end, yes he did, suffer, he really did, but let's move on… Eventually Viv went back to Bournemouth, not to her Dad but her Mum, and he, Peter, went back to Liverpool for the summer holidays, and his brother, Paul, came to Finchley to help him move from where the two edges of sex had met so sharply, and bring him home. And his Mum didn't know anything about the living together because how could he have told her that, he who usually told her everything, because he liked talking, reader, Peter, especially to his Mum, but he couldn't tell her about this, this sex thing that was gripping him, couldn't tell her. And his Mum knew something about the sex thing because she had had three children but she knew it was dangerous, And Peter's Mum had met Vivien and she was scared, because as I have said Vivien was sexy., for want of a better word. She was like the girls Malc and Peter had kissed in the shelters, but couldn't tell their mums about, although they usually told them everything; but Vivien was more so, much much more. And Peter's Mum, Marjorie (Billy) Leyland nee Baker, who had been a tomboy and who was good at netball, and whose husband, Frank, had died of an awful disease when he was 44, and who had had to care for him, and wash him and and change him and dress him, and bury him, had seen this girl, sixteen and sexy. and I mean very sexy, because she was, take her son away from her, the son, her first born, whom she loved, and as I say, she had seen this sexy girl take him away from her with her sex, marry him with her sex, have a baby with her sex, then eventually leave him with her sex. And so she said to her son, Peter, 'I told you so. ' Because mothers are wise. But she couldn't help Peter, hold him, embrace him, because she didn't know how. But his sister could who later, when their Mum died and she was free of her, would go to work in Cambodia at the age of 33, helping trafficked girls rejoin their families, and at 22 she came down to Bedford, to the marital home where Peter still lived in his brokenness, and embraced him and probably saved him from driving his motorbike at 60mph into a brick wall. But that is another story, reader, and very painful, so I won't tell it now, not yet, might not even have to tell it ever, because I think you may be beginning to understand now. And, anyway, I have to get up and start the day. 'I was born in Liverpool, or haven't you heard? I was the eldest son of me dad and this bird. I was brought up nice, when I was elevenI was sent to the same school as John Lennon' had been to, well Paul McCartney actually but that doesn't rhyme. And I made them laugh with that poem too at the workshop in 1981, and with those first two lines from the poem, just those, I started my paper at Aarhus this year, and they laughed there too as they had at the workshop in Bedford but this time it gave me a good feeling, a better feeling in fact because I had by now become myself. And if that doesn't make sense just yet you will have to read more because it will, I promise you, it will. (And that's why I have joined your Project, Alice because I wanted to check that I had really understood who I am, and I feel that my writing has never reached the creative level it is reaching now.) I will trust your judgement. Oh stop me before I go to the loft and find the other poem about schoolgirls (Aaaargghhh, save me from any misunderstanding. I was 14 for God's sake and they seemed to be everywhere on the street, on the bus, on the lawns of Aigburth Vale School which I passed each day on the same bus, the 86, and looked at from the windows, yes everywhere.) And now invading my class, learning Russian with Mr. Simmonds, were five Sixth form girls from Blackburne House, our sister school, and they had on little short gowns with green tassels because they were prefects, and they had come to us because Mr Simmonds, young and dark with a faint stubble, was teaching us O'level Russian, and they wanted to learn that too . from Mr Simmonds. Lucky Mr Simmonds. In front of him he had five seventeen year old girls with rounded hips and stockinged legs, and, if he wanted to impose order on the recalcitrant mob behind those girls, all he had to do was stride forward between the desks and bang their heads together, (and I can still remember reader mine being banged hard against Harco's, next to me, because we weren't listening.) But who could possibly listen when all you could do was look at the hips and legs of those sixth form girls and wonder, 'Why do I feel like this? ' And shuffle in your chair slightly to get more comfortable. Please laugh reader because it is like that, honest. Yes, my editor, some of it should be buried in the past, the motorbike and near death experience. Excise the triptych. Of motorbike and Wishpoem, and an itinerary of poems to read, because something else beckons me but what? What about thie diamond/womb shaped poem, Liverpool 8. Which was published in the school magazine, and later, Honesty, my friend Sue (Now Poole) telling me sbout it. It was inspired by Vision and Prayer that you like and I want to please you, Alice, I tend to do this. And I will look too at the Bjork video and see if that gives me any ideas. InterruptionReader I don't understand. It ts 1. 30am and I have had a dreadful row with my brother, Paul, because he intimated that I was weak with Becky and that I needed to control her and demand more time with my grandchildren and I wouldn't accept that. I accept that Becky had no choice but to go with Viv and not me during the divorce, I just had to let go reader, let go of the beautiful child I had helped to create, the child of Vivien and I. And Paul said I was weak and was always asking for help from people, giving the impression that l can't cope, demanding attention. And he is so right reader, I demand attention, but if I'm refused it or it is given to someone else, a love rival perhaps then I react and sometimes write a poem, or sometimes fall into a depression so severe that I thought it would never stop, and I did once want to be sectioned reader and put in hospital because I couldn't help myself, but the good doctor, Richard Perl, a kind man who had seen a lot of psychiatric patients suffer worse than me said to me that women have a worse time of it than men in his experience, yes Richard Perl, seeing that I wasn't learning and still getting hurt by women rejecting me, sent me to Andrew in Bedford for group therapy and it worked reader, it really did. I have tried to explain in a short play I wrote called The Learning Curve which is printed above. And the argument with Paul did not destroy us but in fact made us stronger. Paul's wife, Sue, cried and put her arms around me and held me, my wife, Sue, wanted to get in the car and go home but didn't say so. The two Sue's. And in the morning Paul brought out some old vinyl records of his that he knew I liked as a peace offering. And my Sue just watched this family that she had joined twenty years ago, gradually pull itself together, and heal itself because it was actually stronger than it knew it was. And the next day they all walked on Bempton Cliffs near Filey and Peter thought that he had never, ever felt so happy. Strange thing life, isn't it reader? Strange thing. But we love it. Love life, lovelife, how's yours? Oh, pretty good now actually. A lot better than it was… End

Peter L: Liminality is certainly a place that this project exists in… what a beautiful experiential space! ‘Relating to a transitional or initial stage of a process.’ Or ‘occupying a position at, or on both sides of, a boundary or threshold’ or in-between something, whether this is a place or time (Oxford Dictionary, 2016). Broadhurst states, Liminality is used to ‘describe a certain marginalised space which holds a possibility of potential forms, structures, conjectures and desire,’ within a performative space, and, ‘liminal performance can be described as being located at the edge of what is possible’ (1999: 12). Turner states, ‘liminality can perhaps be described as a fractile chaos, a fertile nothingness, a storehouse of possibilities, not by any means a random assemblage but a striving after new forms and structure’ (1988: 12). Growing up in Liverpool. We went to it, not Mum, she just sent us. We went to Sunday School, Bible Class and OMG there is another girl story here! But first the chrysalis breaking open, come on Pete, emerge! We played footee, handball and 'boom coming over. Attention! Right dress! March, March, March. Ratatatatatatatatat. Ratatatatatatatatat. Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! And it was beautiful… WWII was not long overSoldiers of Christ, perhaps, but still soldiers. But butterflies were emerging, listening to songwriters like Bob DylanSo [we] went to Major Howard and told him that they had decided that war was not a good thing. Major Howard was angry and went purple in the face and condemned them but it was no good, the war was over, and their life was just beginning. I wake up and somehow I am singing: 'You can get anything you want at Alice's Restaurant. 'It is good to visit the dying. My Dad was in hospital, Stanley Park, Liverpool, suffering kidney failure from the multiple sclerosis that had afflicted him for eight years. Mum took me to the hospital to visit him. I took with me a stool I had made in the woodwork class with Mr MacDonald. And I think Dad smiled as he looked at my stool, but his mouth, which had once held a pipe filled with St Bruno flake, was now slack. Mum asked us how we would feel if God took Dad away from us? The next day Mum told us that Dad had died in the night. We didn't go to the funeral, but I remember people in black in the front room eating cake and drinking sherry. I suspect that at some point Mum told us that we must be brave, the same words I had said to Becky when I really meant I had to be brave, not her. In September 1962 I struggled up the road to the bus and never said anything to anybody about what had had happened to Dad. Except once. At the front of an Atlantean bus, looking out of the front window, Graham Blackburn (Blackie) suddenly asked me what my Dad did, and I said, 'He's dead’. Dave Smith, whose mother had four children, three of whom were younger and girls, also had a heart attack and died. And another caterpillar went into it’s chrysalis and another flying creature emerged from the soup, but this time not a butterfly. This time a moth. But still quite beautiful even though Peter's Mum hated them, hated their large soft bodies that had emerged from the primal soup, just like Peter had emerged from her as a boy and she didn't understand boys. 'I'm a boy, I'm a boy but my Ma won't admit it/I'm a boy, I'm a boy but if I say I am I'll get it. ' (The Who). Thank you Alice, you have done this beautifully. I have never before written about these thingsP. 9. 15 This morning I wake up and there is no mains water, a small thing as it turns out. After considering our options son-in-law and DIW genius, Dan; Darren, lover of next door neighbour, Claire, another DIY genius; local plumber whose number we have and which is Sue's preferred option. Our looming slight differences in approach is resolved when the phone rings and Sue is told that there is a burst water main in Maids Moreton, the village where we live. That's the view from the back of our terraced house, which is even better on a sunny day when you can see the Chilterns. I now play a quick burst of Oh Lucky Man, Richard Ashcroft of The Verve singing at The Isle of Wight Festival in 2016Happiness/More or less/Something in my liberty/Oh, my, myHappiness/Coming and Going/IWatch you look at me/Watch my fever growing/I know just where I amBut how many corners do I have to turn/How many times do I have to learn/All the love I have is in my mindWell I'm a lucky man/With fire in my hands

Peter L: My inner feminine is related to a great extent to my mother. It was she who got me reading and through this I could become anyone I wanted. I realise now that I must have absorbed this message about femininity, that being a girl and then a woman was that you had to be brave, you had to cope. She had to be brave did Mum. When Viv had left I said to Becky we have to be brave. I really meant I did, not her, for she was going with Viv to a new life. I had to cope without them. She was four. Another traditionally feminine side is vulnerability, although men feel it too and boy did it happen to me. But I just had to keep on being brave, going to work and coming home. It was like being an actor, performing and then collapsing backstage. So Brave and so Hard. The feminine side wants to weep, and writing and performing poetry helped me do that acceptable weeping. Great writers can make us live in their characters and become them. ‘Living within another charged’ (Ettinger) Performative, embodied. ‘Trying on’ Internalising others states. Host mother. If she doesn't want you let her go… life lessons in love… So does the masculine become feminine? Such an interesting concept to explore further I think… Great writers can put you there, you are the characters, and Barker does this. I love your writing: ‘A memory of domestic violence’ – I’m reading this after posting the Day 8 – What happened memory but this is so rich and again could be a piece for Day 9 extension to develop? Along with the poem form from Day 5… I can’t wait to read your story for Day 8 – I can see your feminine and masculine interplay and flow in the words from your hand… J Hope you liked the Day 8 story. You know I'm with my family now and I can't stop telling them stories, like tonight I told the story of my first job at Clark's College, Guildford when I was married to Viv, and the words of the Persian boy, Hadi Zarbafi. 'That was one of the best lessons ever, Mr Leyland. 'I have now attempted a Ghazal A Ghazal for Hadi to whom I taugh RE in 1974Hadi comes and talks to me across the desk at which I sitHis olive skin is smooth above the collar of his washed white shirt He tells me of his dreams this boy who has great beauty in his voiceHe dreams that all the world's sad suffering will soon be but a choice I listen to the words of this young boy who was born 14 years agoWho wishes that the song I playedof 'Hattie Carrol* were not soWho has absorbed those words which told of cruelty in lands of far away Of people who chained others up in hard, cruel bonds to sail on seas of greyAnd whipped and sold those men and women into thrall; And who now weeps that such a thing should ever be at allAnd, I said, 'Hadi go outside and contemplate the flowersAnd then step, back, look up, and gaze upon the stars. 'And we'll play songs to people of the world that now are sadAnd we will work together bothto make the world less bad. *The Lonesome Death of Hattie Carol is a song by Bob Dylan based on a true story of the black servant of a slave owner in the USA. It was one of a number of songs that changed my thinking in the 1960s. I played it to this class of what would now be Year 9s and they had given me a God awful time reading The Children's Bible, but when they had done their Intermediate exams based on this book I was free to ditch The Children's Bible and teach what I wanted which was about racism in the USA and South Africa, and some of them, notably Hadi, but maybe others too, changed their thinking like I had done.

Peter: A original reading by the poet I think Peter? An interesting form on the page too… it is wonderful to imagine a child from the future ‘within’ speaking to us of its fear of what the world can do… maybe that is part of these ‘little’ touches the hope we can try and put back into our world to try somehow make it a more loving feeling kind place… Beautiful examples of men trying to grasp that truth, which they themselves cannot experience in the same way as a woman can… what would you write?… I of course would feel no pain, except sharing hers. 'And the whole pain/Flows open/And I/Die. ' If you look at the poem, you will see that the shape is the birth canal… can you find this for me and send me a photo of the shape? ‘My mother, so frail yet in-domitable’ – I bet… 'i carry your heart with me (i carry it in/my heart) i am never without it (anywhere/i go you go…)' …yes Peter I think it is. I am not yet born; O hear me. Let not the bloodsucking bat or the rat or the stoat or the club-footed ghoul come near me. I am not yet born, console me. I fear that the human race may with tall walls wall me, with strong drugs dope me, with wise lies lure me, on black racks rack me, in blood-baths roll me. I am not yet born; provide meWith water to dandle me, grass to grow for me, trees to talk to me, sky to sing to me, birds and a white light in the back of my mind to guide me. I am not yet born; forgive meFor the sins that in me the world shall commit, my words when they speak me, my thoughts when they think me, my treason engendered by traitors beyond me, my life when they murder by means of my hands, my death when they live me. I am not yet born; rehearse meIn the parts I must play and the cues I must take when old men lecture me, bureaucrats hector me, mountains frown at me, lovers laugh at me, the white waves call me to folly and the desert calls me to doom and the beggar refuses my gift and my children curse me. I am not yet born; O hear me, Let not the man who is beast or who thinks he is God come near me. I am not yet born; O fill meWith strength against those who would freeze my humanity, would dragoon me into a lethal automaton, would make me a cog in a machine, a thing with one face, a thing, and against all those who would dissipate my entirety, would blow me like thistledown hither and thither or hither and thither like water held in the hands would spill me. Let them not make me a stone and let them not spill me. Otherwise kill me. Louis MacNeice Yes, thank you. I will send the poem. Tomorrow I am walking 9 miles! with my friend Kate, a triathlete and probably as fit as your sister, but will get it to you on Friday. P. Alice, somewhere I have told you the story of Irmtraud, whom, I met on an Arvon poetry course and spent some time with but I can't find it now. She wasn't a goddess in the Roman sense but a Valkyrie, and she helped me with her Valkyrie woman warrior self as you will see if you can find the piece I wrote about her. And I think you mentioned other members of our group doing the project. And your concerns about some of them. I think l am good at groups because I work in adult ed and could make suggestions to help you with the group you have formed if you want. Just ask Alice, just ask PeterxPS I have somewhere written in here about a misunderstanding with my brother and we were angry with each other but the Anger has passed and today we mend each other, helped by our wives. Because women are good at mending things, at mending the men that they might have hurt. Sorry, getting poetic, now! ByeI11. 30amt is morning and harmony is restored. I love this ipad that I can talk to like this. Perhaps it could be usefully used for patients wth depression, for them to talk to counsellors, as I am telling you. Low battery time to recharge Yes, yes that would be great. I went on three more of those Arvon courses Lumb Bankx2 Sheepwash X1 and Moniack Moore x1 when I was 60, although that is no longer Arvon. Each was a story in itself, all different, although not quite as good as that first one! P. I love the group thing which Arvon seem to promote. Making supper with three people you've never met before for all the others is brilliant. Anyway before my mind runs away. Hear from you soonPeter4. 10I've now had more ideas and will note them. I will try a Ghazal when I get home in my book-lined study (actually we live in a small terrace but had the room designed specially by a local plumber's mate

Peter L: Sue and I talk every day on the phone when she is at work at about one o'clock. I phone her mobile from the house phone and we talk for maybe 5 minutes. I find using the phone difficult because my hearing is poor and I avoid it when I can. Hearing aids are okay, and help, especially the new digital ones, but I can't use mobiles. I have to lip read so phones are always difficult but generally the landline is better Email is a form of communicating I really love. It is about words rather than voices, although I do love to talk to people. Interesting to think about the senses more and new technologies to develop… Communicating with others is vital for me. This i-pad is a fairly recent method of doing it. I now use it a lot to check references and send emails. I use face-time every now and then to talk to my sister who is working in Cambodia. Actually this project, and using the Evernote with it, has opened up new ways of communicating for me. I don't really agree with what Rebecca Solnitt says about communication. I have lived alone, just waiting desperately for a phone call or a letter that never came. Now it is great that there are more channels to communicate with, even though it might just be with yourself. So I'm saying that all forms of digital communication can be good emails, texting, FaceTime, Facebook. It is a matter of how you choose to use it and, as we use it more, conventions appear, to ease the process of these new ways of sharing each other's words and thoughts. Virtual relationships can never match the importance of real ones, simply because there is no touch or closeness of bodies and voices. Just the presence of another person in a room is enough to transform the space you both occupy. Dialogue. Moving deep reflection. It is wonderful to see you, Sue, your daughter Bex and grandchild… it has been so intimate getting to know them through your words and then seeing their pictures somehowing bringing them together – making them more complete. Whole. Lovable. Bex Don't watch it Daddy. You know how it will make you feel. Peter (returning) Well, I watched it as you knew I would and yes, it was harrowing. I’ve move Pieta Peter to Day 7! It needed to belong amongst the facebook musings and gangs… I like the fact you are ‘contrary’, I think your family see it and know it and secretly like it!;) The EarA picture of the inner ear, amazing. Bella, whose book I have been reading while I have been doing the project, wrote about how she lost her hearing at 27, struggled to accept it, then struggled over using hearing aids as I did ( I was 33 but it might have been earlier), and then finally had a very new and possibly tricky operation in France to restore her full hearing. She was suffering from otosclerosis which is treatable by a skilled surgeon. The diagram shows the inner ear in detail, and where i to investigate further it would probably replicate in words how the surgeon travelled through her ear, one of the most complex organs we have, more than the brain even. Bella's hearing loss was not like mine, the nerve cell dying, but. could be completely restored which unfortunately mine can't, but, reader I manage wonderfully well. If you will allow me to explain: on the landline phone today I was talking to Zahidah over the difficult issue of being a guarantor for Shirl's son's London rent. Shirl can't be it because she lives in Cambodia, rehabilitating girls who have been trafficked to China, and returned, spoiled in the eyes of their families. This makes her ineligible for some ill-defined reason. Well, you might think Zahidah would be sympathetic to Shirl and the trafficked girls, being a woman and all that, but when I mentioned it in passing she did not respond how terrible! but let my comment pass on unremarked. In the end she explained what I had to do and I noticed that I had got used to the timbre of her voice, (as we hearing lost people do). I had asked her to speak louder (not shouting) and more clearly which she did. The upshot is that I am now in a position to fill in the form which will help my sister. So should I blame Zahida, reader, for her lack of empathy with my sister and the girls, or should I turn away and forget about it as observers of some other genocides may have done? Where does responsibility begin and end? I don't know know know know know knowI don't know.

Peter L: Beautiful Sue, the Ginger Cat and the Cracked Pot. Entering the turnstile. Pedagogy – teacher – student. Milton Keynes to Japan. Conversational Pieces… I think your stories need to become ‘plays/conversational pieces’… lets look at this later… 2, 000 lines of Beowulf. The Nags Head in Great Linford where we shared our stories. ‘I am going to get on the inside of Chris and let him tell Pete's story, the story Pete tries to avoid telling; and so Chris will tell the story which Pete cannot, has never really been able to tell because it is so close to him; yes, now Chris, his friend, will tell it.’ His Mum was indomitable. His father, was soft and kind. The highly stressful job of teaching causes burnout. The Raj Quartet by Paul Scott. ‘I wondered whether it was this that she had signed up for when she had married him? She who was pretty, and who had once been photographed for the Bournemouth Echo in a mini-skirt with a policeman. ’Sandy, Bedfordshire, where a lot of Brussel sprouts are grown. His face didn't fit. Offered the life-line. 'But, it wasn't just the stuff of soap, operas, it was real life, and his wife suddenly pulled the car over to the side of the road and burst into tears and told him between sobs that she was having an affair, and that she was in love, and that there was nothing Pete could do about it because she was leaving and taking their daughter with her, and that she was going to live with the ‘other’ man. Pete did not die, no he did not. No, he got better, and better, much better. Beautiful Sue, the Ginger Cat and the omniscient narrator, reader, author, writer, singer, dancer, teller of stories, seafarer, wayfarer, shape-shifter, creator, restorer, life-giver, healer, healed. Day twenty something, trying out a conversational pieceNow reader, I have returned to this story because I loved the picture of the nurse you put in and I wanted to consider my friendship with Chris again. The dialogue is between me and an unspecified interlocutor. The StoryAbout ten years ago now, and time passes in great swathes doesn't it reader? Chris decided to leave his wife, Sue, with whom he had two children. Leave his wife? For god's sake, Pete, why? Why? Well, because Chris had overreached himself in his job as an educational adviser and had had some sort of breakdown that put him off work sick for about six months. Really, and what happened when he was ill? Well, his wife, Sue, was less than impressed, because if you think I'm a performer, then Chris is more so. Chris could hold an audience of 500 people in his palm and make them laugh while he told them about the follies of the education system and how he was going to help them improve it. Yes, I know all that, but did you say that Sue didn't help him when he was ill? No, I didn't say that. She did help him because she couldn't allow the main man to crumble completely, but she was also a bit pleased that he was getting his come-uppance. Really! Well that wasn't very nice. No, I know, but marriage can get a bit like that can't it, a sort of tussle between personalities? Anyway, while Sue was holding the fort, taking care of the children, who were now teenagers, someone else was helping Chris. Someone else ? What are you telling me here? I'm telling you what happened. A colleague on the advisory team, a bit younger than him, and single and, incidentally originally from Liverpool, came round to see him a couple of times. From Liverpool? How does that fit in? It doesn't really, except that he once said that both his best friend and his lover were from Liverpool. His lover? Haven't you jumped a bit here? Yes, I'm sorry, I wanted to get to the point. As we swam up and down the pool and, after he'd gone back to work, Christold me how he had started an affair with a colleague. With the colleague who had come round to see him? Yes, that's right. She wasn't one of the nurses then? No, and I'm being serious now so listen. Ok, I'm all ears. Well, eventually, the whole thing with the colleague got really intense and he told Sue. Told her! How did she react to that then? How did she react? Well, you've heard of Armageddon haven't you? Mmmm… Well it was like that and a bit more. Really, and hadn't they just had their silver wedding anniversary? Yes, my Sue and I had been to it, and of course, so had the colleague. You mean the one? Yes, I do mean that Oh my god, what happened next? Well of course Sue chucked him out, and I advised him to go and live on his own for a bit to work things through. Oh yes, typical Pete. A moment to reflect and all that, and did he? Did he what? Did he go off and reflect? No, of course not. He moved in with Deb straight away. Into her willing arms? Yes. So if the nurses had appeared, you would have had to handle them both then? I think you're teasing me. Yes, I amScene 2And what happened about the children? Now, that's a difficult one. The upshot is that Emily, has maintained her relationship with Chris, but won't see Deb, who is in fact now married to her Dad… She didn't go to the wedding then? You're joking. No, I'm just interested. I suppose you went? Yes, I did. What was it like? Well, it was sort of white, because Deb had always wanted a special wedding, not in church though, neither of them are religious. Thank goodness for that. God would probably have something to say. Now you're being flippant. Sorry, you can carry on with the story. What about Sam? Sam? That is almost unbearable. I was his godfather you know and I suppose I have some responsibility. No you don't, Pete, and we don't need a guilt trip here. Just tell me about Sam. Ok, well Chris hasn't seen his son for over ten years because Sam just refuses to have anything to do with him. You're kidding me. Didn't they do all that rugby together, and weren't they just like Chris and his own Dad had been before he died? Didn't you tell me that? Yes, I did, but Sam has cut off all communication. The only time Chris saw him was at his Mum's funeral, and that was just briefly from the other side of the room. And nothing since then? That's right, nothing. Well that's a right mess, was it worth it do you think? I suppose it must have been for him. He was in l love. In order to gain life's pleasures, sometimes you have to make sacrifices. Now you're being philosophical. I suppose I am. Shall we have a beer? Yes, let'sEnd

Peter L: I’ve been on Arvon courses too Peter… aren’t they magic! I went on ‘Writing your first a novel with Emma O’Donaghue and Mark Quinn’… I haven’t… and a playwriting course with April de Angelis and Ruth Wade… all fab! Yorkshire and mmmm Devon I think! Mimi Khalvalti came at read to us when I was a student at The Slade School of Art in the late 90’s… I have loved her ever since… Faiz Ahmed Faiz that 'the true subject of poetry is the loss of the beloved' and have wanted to back away from this because it was true for me and was scary. (I’ve not read her yet either…) You know so much about poetry – such beautiful words… It was a sonnet. Somehow the form makes the ache more bearable. This research could be seen as 'free form', inviting us to express ourselves however we want to with just triggers that we can pick up and run with. Can you write a ‘Ghazal… that would be wonderful – maybe instead of your Day 9 as you are brilliantly and committed to this project and I’m playing catch up with others and at risk of neglecting the ability to timely respond also to those who like you are beautifully ‘running with it’… thank you… And I am juggling 23year olds, single Dads, my Mother, those retired, working mothers and the potential list goes on and is beautiful varied and unpredictable – and yet so very rich much like most of life I guess! J Dear Alice, I've just read this about you going on Arvon courses as I was trawling the days for some response from you. My first Arvon course was lovely. And transformative for me in a way you won't mind hearing, I'm sure. There were many women there. I was the only man, apart from one other student and the two tutors. I had written a poem about The Mill Chimney as suggested by the Tutor, Martin Booth. I had searched for it, shouted in it and produced the poem. That night we were drinking and I noticed that Irmtraud, a German woman, was coming on to one of the tutors. I had a feeling he wasn't going to take her up and he didn't do it. A bit craftily I positioned myself so she would come on to me during the rest of the course. She was older than me and was about five years old in Germany at the end of the war when RAF planes machine gunned the field where she was playing with friends and had to hide in a ditch. No-one was killed and she escaped but it scared her.. On the last day of the course we all read our poems, and then Liz Lochhead, our guest came on and gave a mesmerising performance. The next day Irmtraud asked me to come back to Manchester on the train with her. And I did. Never was anything so exciting. No-one Alice in he world knew where I was or who I was with, except Irmtraud. We got to her house and you can guess what happened without me having to go into detai. Needless to say I felt pretty good. That night she went to her job as a Tyrolean Waitress ia restaurant in Manchester, leaving me in her house alone with my thoughts. I stayed with her that night and the next one and the next. It became a sort of mini-relationshi, the need being on both our sides. She was divorced and had a son. She was older than me but it didn't matter how much and I can't work it out. I was 31 or 32. The relationship gradually fell away, painlessly. I couldn't drive then except on the bike, which wasn't the one in the picture, I was being dishonest and you must have picked it up. But Irmtraud and I visited each other a few times by train. I have a picture of her which I could put here if you think it is right and the real bike, a red 100cc Suzuki on which I passed my test first time. It's interesting but I've just remembered another story. It's later now, post Irmtraud, and I have met this woman on some course or other and visited her at her place but clearly not much is going to happen. (No chemistry, a phrase I would learn in the dating game that I now had to play). Anyway, during our nothing happening, she gives me to understand that in order to have any success in the dating game I will need a car, and not just any car. Some of her friends, she tells me, define a man by the car he drives. Oh my God, this whole thing is turning out to be a lot more complicated than I thought. I can't drive and I keep failing the wretched test. (There is a reason because the motor bike one was easy, but I haven't yet realised what it is.) More next week. It is now the second year, post Viv, and for some reason even harder than the first. The main achievement so far is that I have given up smoking with some help from a T. V programme led by Chas and Dave, and now I am no longer consuming an ounce of Old Holborn, or Sun Valley, or Golden Virginia every day. Work is dreadful. I don't do any preparation, and no marking, and have frequent run ins with children, mainly boys. 'Rafaelli, you little bastard, get in line. ' Is a typical poem from that period, not good at all. Luckily, there is a life-line available. Anne Pennell at Bedford College, where I was doing a short course on Science teaching when Viv left, and who I told about it, has suggested I do an Advanced Dip Ed in Science Education and I have started it. Somehow this course, and Anne and her husband Fred's support, enable me to survive teaching at Sandye Place. I devise a quite extraordinary Year 8 project on Time which involves all sorts of exciting experiments about how to measure it. There now began a very creative two year spell of teaching, but I was always a performer, retiring at the end of the day behind the stage to collapse in what must have been a post something depression. Then my G. P. whose son I had taught and who knew all about the events in Sandy. (I was public property, and I even had to teach the two daughters and son of my wife's lover.) referred me to Dr Perl in Bedford. Fantastic man. When at our first meeting I said to him that I couldn't understand why I wasn't getting over the divorce more quickly. It was two whole years! (After all, people were saying to me that, 'I had to get back on the horse. ' He said, 'Two years, well, that's par for the course, ' which lifted a whole weight from my shoulders. Courses for horses, reader, if you are still there. At this point there is the trip to America. In August 1982 I travelled to America. I had been invited over by Arthur, a friend from my student days whom I had met in New York in 1970. He had contacted me again by ringing Mum in Liverpool to find out where I was and what I was doing. She had told him about the divorce and my need for friends at that time. He was by now a steward with Pan-Am and made routine flights to Heathrow, staying at the Sheraton Hotel in Knightsbridge. We met there a few times, even went to see Bob Dylan together. How curious, on our return from the concert, there was a racist incident on the tube which I somehow broke up, saying 'Stop! ' in my best teacherly manner. The perpetrators slunk away telling me. 'it's not racial, mate, ' which it clearly was, and the victims retreated together to the next compartment. Anyway, I digress. The upshot of the Sheraton visits was that Arthur invited me to New York, to his apartment, where he lived with Sandra and Jesse, and from where I was to launch out on my Amelrican journey. He went with me to buy a rucksack for the journey and a 15 day Greyhound Ameripass. He then took me to the Port Authority in Manhattan and waved me off at about 11 o'clock in the evening. His advice on entering and leaving bus terminals was to always appear that I knew what I was doing. I was to remember that later. My initial destination was Washington and to get there I travelled through Philadelphia and Baltimore. I arrived some time in the afternoon and immediately sought out the youth hostel. It was in a very sleazy part of the city, full of hard-core book and video shops, but the place itself was full and friendly. In no time at all I was talking to an Australian girl called Anne. She asked if she could travel round with me, and together we visited The Washington Monument and other places of interest. We stood outside the railings at the Whitehouse, watching Vietnam veterans in wheelchairs protesting. On my last visit in 1970, I remembered that friends of Arthur's were going to Canada to avoid the draft. Anne was blonde and attractive. She wore red shorts with a white stripe down the side. I was pleased with the companionship and as we toured around we talked quite freely about our lives. I remember us both lying side by side on our stomachs in one of the parks. I wondered whether I should try to kiss her but am glad now that I didn't. I stayed in Washington for two or three days and finally parted from Anne to travel south. She was going north to New York. As I left I noticed that she was already sounding out an American with a beard to be her next travelling companion. The next stop I made was in Knoxville. Tennessee. This was a total contrast to my previous stop and here I met Floy Bell who ran the international youth hostel there as a sort of semi-religious refuge from the world. She was pleasant enough but the spiritual weirdness of 'Bell's Wa-Floy Retreat' got me down after a while and I was soon ready to move on. I decided to head down to New Orleans. I was by now becoming familiar with Greyhound Bus travel and if it was possible to take up two sears I would. Also, I could sleep on the bus, something I found useful if I didn't want to make an overnight stop. At various points on the journey things happened. The first was when I intervened to stop a man from harassing a girl on the bus. There was a commotion from the back and she came rushing down from her seat to where I was sitting and flopped down next to me. A moment later a heavily built white man appeared and tried to get her to return to the back of the bus with him. I half stood and in my best English accent told him to leave her alone, fully expecting to receive a punch in the jaw for my trouble. But it didn't happen and he returned to his seat. The girl appeared to be from the Middle East. She was very flustered and, although I tried to find it what had happened, she didn't want to talk to me, so I didn't press her.

Peter L: From your: Muse, editor, friend… My Muse is magical, unknown, but all encompassing. My Muse has shown me how to write thie poem. Soft grey favourite jacket… The poem should be read aloud as a performance piece. And a suitable piece of music played suddenly but in the distance, like that coming from a mobile phone, after 'half-heard sounds'. ‘I am on a quite extraordinary emotional journey right now because of the Project. Transformative It is good for me.’ I am so moved by this – thank you Peter – it is a gift back to me hearing that you are experiencing that for yourself! J Listening to From a Distance by Nanci Griffiths, amazing when she clenches her fists and sings Ask Alice to put the song in my notesGet a photo and put on Evernote. But you can't go around embracing the whole world Peter. Why not, why can't I? Because you're not Jesus, you know that don't you? Can I be a bit of Jesus and help Shirl? Of course you can. Just wait and it will happen. Take it easy as Alice in Wonderland said… J I have helped her today by listening. Like me she suffers from chronic anxiety, learned from our Mum, I think. My brother doesn't suffer from it, but he doesn't have strawberry blonde hair, nor incidentally did Mum or Dad. When Mum then died she was free to live her dream and go to help people in Cambodia to develop themselves after the genocide there. Today I listened to her and, while her anxiety did not disappear, it was lessened. Listened -Lessened. Beautiful Peter – ‘Listening – lessening – Learning – Loving…’ Ten chairs are set round in a circle and in the centre are two chairs set back to back. One is occupied by a man with a beard, the other is empty. The psychotherapists sit silently, moving only slightly to shift their weight. But if you smile at me, you know I will understand. One day near the end of one of the walks Dad started stumbling and falling down. Two men from the group got either side of him and he put his arms over their shoulders. They helped him walk back to the house. Smiley people – just look at your hands too… Thanks for this Alice from the Wonderland you are creating. I have just had an extraordinary day on Bempton Cliffs near Filey, where my brother lives. I honestly don't think I have ever been happier in my life and I told them, Paul, Sue and Sue, yes I told them that. And it will last, this happiness, not with the same intensity but it willLast

But that is another story, reader, and very painful, so I won't tell it now, not yet, might not even have to tell it, because I think you may be beginning to understand now. And, anyway, I have to get up and start the day. 'I was born in Liverpool, or haven't you heard? I was the eldest son of me dad and this bird. I was brought up nice, when I was elevenI was sent to the same school as John Lennon' had been to, well Paul McCartney actually but that doesn't rhyme. Peter i love it that you say: (And that's why I have joined your Project, Alice because I wanted to check that I had really understood who I am, and I feel that my writing has never reached the creative level it is reaching now.) Wonderful wonderful wonderful… 😃 Keep writing and sharing it is great that all these memories are surfacing and that over the 12months I am sure some amazing transformative artwork will come from this… Wow! Alice that's great. A question that intrigues me. Have seen the Charles Dodson/Alice in Wonderland Exhibition at Christchurch college., Oxford. I expect you have but I too have my own connection to that.

The Moon in Pisces I think. Is the most like meGrief and love and touch… And you know something about love, don't you, when you held your sister and her still born baby in Australia, because I noticed that. You said I notice things and I do and I know you loved her, and it must have been terribly hard for her, but you helped, yes you helped because love helps people doesn't it, helps them carry on? Connections and connections… said this to Laura, your friend, when we were on the train out of Copenhagen with others hanging on the straps with the train rattling along, because she likes John Donne, Laura does, and she smiled. But I know now Laura was still grieving deep inside for her Dad, which she told me, because people want to share things like grief, and she had read a book which helped her with that grief, which was the point of my paper at Aarhus, that through literature we can share things, and understand ourselves and our grieving, and our loving, and that is why I am doing this with you because it is similar Art is the nearest thing to life. (Eliot) and you are an artist. Inside. Outside. Reflection. Action. Introspection. Today I am in a starship and it's exciting and fun and I have interacted significantly with at least three people in Buckingham that I didn't know before… And now I'd better start the day and I feel good, but the world is out there, and us dreamers have to ground ourselves sometimes, otherwise we would just float away into space, just float away to the stars. Touch… empathy… movement – touching others and ‘knowingness’… And there are two more stories from this morning, but I won't tell you them, because they are not as important as this one which I chose for you, because the one I chose for you was about two people recognising each other for a moment, a brief moment, a human moment. Happy singing poet child – zooming exploring reaching out… gliding noticing… touching others hearts…

Day 1: Love as fleeting. Attention giving. attention/ignoring acceptance/rejection appreciation/disinterest affection/coldness allowing/forbidding. Day 2: Basic instinct. Ambivalence. Open and closed spaces. Survival. Stories. Skills. Risk. Not listening. Flying/Falling. Frantic repair. Broken man. Feeding chicks. Solitude. Wood. Warmth. Craft. Play. 2 people. Mum and Dad. Building a nest together. 3 chicks. 1 died. Loss. Sadness.

Can you save someone's life by loving them for a day, I wonder? Probably not, because that day she was a goddess, and goddesses are canny about these things. Everything that is called Fragments is in my backpack, even the view from our house. Liverpool Friends before and after. English Literature classes, would go in the backpack too. Sue, my wife. Sue has seen me taking photos of a plethora of objects. The blind is pulled down to form a backdrop. And we are now drinking tea out of our special mugs that Sue got for our china anniversary. I have been sharing my backpack with her. Sue is in my backpack too. Ben Sherman Shirt. Grey Jacket. Boots. Hat. Compass to find my way home… Becky. Love. Photos. Memories. Words. Cards. Song. Bob Dylan. Joni Mitchell. Rubber Soul. Blake. Swiss Army knife. A room with a view. Gifted and Talented. Author. Peter Leyland. 5th April 1997. China in your hand. WEA (My Mum worked for them too… a family of teachers…) Flight compensation vouchers. Knitted scarf. Shadow Theatre. A detective. Books. Poems. String. Tin. A ceramic tile from Sicily 2015 Electrical wires, buzzer and battery have you used an Arduino or Rashberry Pi lets remember this for making for later? My special pen. (Pete sorry I managed to somehow delete two images from Emma in Wonderland the text with Alice in it and the colouring of ‘Alice’ can you put them back in please? Thanks! Alice) :) Have put those Alice images back in. Have not used Arduino or Rasberry Pi. My brother thinks I'm a computer scaredy cat (part of our recent argument) and I am. In the best traditions of holistic learning I try things and then ask people for help . E. g. Instead of Sat Nav I use what I call Sat People. Stop and ask. The same with computer progs but I usually find a way. In other words I'll try anything, just like I would give the kids all the wires, batteries, bulbs, buzzers, motors, pieces of card, scissors, pens and then see what happened often some magic. The best one was making a burglar alarm. 'For making for later…' P. With a Little Help from My Friends Joe Cocker, nearly ten million views on YouTube

Peter L: Thank you for uploading the beautiful ‘womb’ shaped poems – I love them! Rikki don't lose that number. There are no twin souls, there is just you and sometimes companions for the journey men, women, girls, boys, children, lovers, friends, even cats. Really ‘fresh’ to have the inserts from your Irish Notebook included – really takes the reader into that place as though ‘present’. But that's another story, reader. Sounds of tea being made. No judgement. Just listening. Be happy, don't grieve over what was and what was not. All is valuable – as the French writer Gustave Flaubert once said, ‘everyone's life is worth a novel’.