Well I'm a nesty kind of person. I quite like that. Wherever I live I nest, be it a camping trip for a short weekend, where I'm sure to be hanging out bunting, making an ah hoc kitchen and setting beds. In the past it was my first seventies brown student digs, where in a day I had instantly transformed it into an Elmer the elephant coloured space… and now in my grown up house I nest and enjoy cosy evenings in winter by a warm fire. I nested a lot in preparation for my pregnancies. I never quite figured out the compulsion I had for wanting to take a dirty rug to the dry cleaners a few weeks before my eldest daughter was born. No matter how much my nesting instinct took over, I couldn't physically shift the rug. Ed was not having a bar of it, so it never did get cleaned. I spent a good few hours in labour on all fours on that flipping rug it could have at least smelt a bit better!! I get huge pleasure from building my nest and admiring my space. I love to decorate my little girls rooms with bright colours and make it a sanctuary of comfort for them. I love the way they create nests for their teddies. On our visit to Tokyo I recall Helena tucking all her teddies up in hotel slippers. ( I will find you the photos we took.) We were far away in one of the largest cities in the world l, all the hustle and bustle that was going on outside and in her 2 year old mind, her peppa pig, gruffalo mouse, kiwi bird and teddy were nested! I seem to recall there is a schema in early childhood development where nesting is a learnt and practiced behaviour. Endless games of hide and seek and den building with Helena and Imogen. They have both loved to feel secure and safe in their early nests. I too remember in childhood building secret dens, tree house and hideouts. The secrecy and excitement they provided. A place to make potions, smoke cigarettes and hide from donkeys! I even remember making my bedroom in to a rainforest. Green light bulb and vines hung from the ceiling. I also recall an 'Emily ' nest box that I could see from out of my bedroom window. I've lived in some hard nests too. A bit like the nests that the collared doves in my back garden tree attempt to build (and fail) every year. It's hopeless but they still try or forget they did the year before. As soon as a strong wind comes all the sticks that make up their love nest blow away. Sadly leaving little broken egg shells onThe lawn. Not being in a happy nest is horrible and trapping. It's disappointing and feels like a holding place. There has been nests where Ive needed to get away from. The one in Yorkshire with the ex boyfriend. This was like living as an old person nothing dynamic going on there. The only option was to take flight and flee that nest. My wings held out. I suppose all homes are A form of nest that can hold so many emotions and experiences. Once it's occupants are gone … do the bricks and mortar hold on to a sense of the people who occupied it? I think the energy in different buildings and places needs to be heard, and can be felt too sometimes.

Reading the stories merged together, elicited this snippet of a conversation I had with my younger sister about a year ago… 'It's funny how isn't it? ''What? ''It's not how a person is… it's how they make you feel… 'don't you think? '' Yes I know' 'That man, he's strange. '… 'yes' I said. ' I've often thought that. I always cross the street if I see himself coming' 'He makes me feel uncomfortable too.. 'My inner dialogue is saying. Maybe he's ill, maybe he's got some kind of memory loss or dementia. Maybe I need to go easy on him, be less judgemental… Or maybe not… he just makes me feel odd. I don't like my children near him. He's too interested in my children. Protect them keep them away from his straying walking stick. Another incident with the walking stick man on a different day. He walks down the street, I'm in the company of my husband today. Confrontational, gut response. Husband : 'Keep away from my children. You fucking pervert! ' He lurches out with! Walking stick Man: ' oooh she's crying' he said 'pick her up' he said. 'Yes Daddy that's how she likes it' he said. In that moment I felt sick. His tone of voice was all wrong. This traction point was all about the tone… the emotion and intention in his voice. I always get cross with my husband for swearing in front of the kids, not this time. I really felt my suspicions were right. I needed to keep him far away from my children. Every time I see him now I cross the street. I think the 'sexually assaulted' part of our merged stories really triggered this conversation in me. The sense of vulnerability in others. The journeys that we all go on alone, that inner dialogue that we all experience bonds us. It's like when you think of someone, and then they call you. The vulnerability and the beauty that comes from it. The stories threaded together share a sense of needing to belong, comforted and connected. In someways this made me think of the walking stick man. He wanted to reach out to us, to my children, to touch, to perhaps engage with their vulnerability. Wrong desire in the wrong hands. The stories are all share a visceral connections. So I thought about the five senses, scanned the us story and then the first word that popped into my head from the list of words I've left in capitals, and finally a funny little poem for you. 😘Sight: Florescent eyes, red yellow dark, light PRISM. Taste: kiss, tongue sweet evaporated milk, sick. SPIT. Touch: sheepskin, hug, bear, Pom poms. Hold, sexually GORGEOUS Sound: tape deck, crash, notes sound world. Listen. TOP OF THE POPSSmell: paint, coconut. Cafe EMBALM To finish. A mix tape poem from the 80sOutside the cuckoo SPIT sends out a PRISM of rainbow light that EMBALMS the underside of a foxglove leaf. Inside TOP OF THE POPS is blaring out of the TV. Number one, it's the GORGEOUS Wham duo who make the heart of the teenage girls race.

Areas to Transform: 1… practice self forgiveness 2… notice the pauses 3… waste less Time worrying about what's happened/decisions 4… spend time with those who nourish rather than drain me. 5… walk in nature 6… drink more water7… sing! feminine flowers. Touch. To ‘handle or feel gently usually with the intent to understand or appreciate… to meet without overlapping or penetrating…’. Tickle Time

I'm going to give a midsummer party Swedish style! Initial response! Ed 'Who's this from?! 'Em 'Me' of course! Ed 'Ooh a truly transformational encounter!! Ed ' I'm intrigued ' 'is this moomin related?! ' 'Are the moomins Swedish or Finnish? 'Em 'they are Finnish'Ed 'I don't have anything fancy! 'Ed ' Oh what fun! ' Big smile! So last night I held my Swedish midsummer soirée! 🍰❤⭐🌸🌺🌻💐🌈🍸🍺🍷🥂🇸🇪It was fun, my guest was a little apprehensive as was I having spent the hour before (when I supposed to be preparing the food in a relaxed an mindful fashion) chasing a guinea pig in the flower bed. I needed to catch it before the cat did! We'd already had one dead guinea pig that day( natural causes poor thing) I didn't want two! So kids in bed, and slightly perturbed they weren't involved, I set to. MeatballsVeggie meatballsCheese boardGravellax CandlesA Swedish starawberry cake a little burnt but it was tasty. Abba and good company. 'Take a chance on me'Once my guest had got over his slightly suspicious and weary approach to the evening he enjoyed it. He needed to find out why I had decided to hold a transformative celebration and what it was all about! Facts given he was satisfied he could relax and I wasn't going to spring some maypole dancing on him! He brought with him a music playlist that were all songs that reminded him of me. As we exchange many stories about these moments. We chatted about photographs we had of happy times together, of actual photographs and those held in his head. The happy sad and curious. The times alone, as a young free couple and then the times when our babies arrived and grew. It was a soft and gentle summery evening. I embraced the pagan nature of the celebration and came dressed in my pretty bohemian dress. I felt fairy like, floral and free! It's a Swedish tradition to wear flower garlands. So I dressed with one and one for my guest! I scattered the table with rose petals (for you Al) you can have them back I saved them. Then out crawled a little furry caterpillar. I was about to throw it into the garden. Then I thought about its transformation yet to come and I was happy he'd found shelter in my rose petals for a while as he prepared for his own transformation. The darkness closed in and the garden faded as the last flowers disappeared into the darkness. I was anxious it might feel like enforced fun, but allowing myself to not hold any high expectations of how successful it was going to turn out allowed me to be appreciate the experience for what it was. A summer celebration, a celebration of light and long days. I think honouring the pagan tradition felt right and beautiful. It was a tender evening, as tender as the month of June. In fact it might just have to become a annual celebration now…

I invite you to complete the following sentences as you feel moved to: never touch… I like to touch… I am completely in touch with… I have felt touched by… I wish I had touched… I like being touched on… I swear I never touched… I left a mark on… I am touched every time… I like to touch base by… I like to touch base with… The past touches me like… How much am I in touch with me? Can I see your hands? Images: Here are mine…

Nine months inside, a growing being. A soul formed and getting ready to take its earthly form. Is our destiny formed from that moment of conception? In someways I think it is. A new world of potential developing in a place of complete security, a place where your needs are met, without having to ask. A womb where the mind and brain of your mother is the only thing that keeps you alive. Total reliance, on another being to live. Pulsing of blood, nutrients, emotions and touch. Sounds and light blurred and dumbed down by the presence of a pulse beating. One big heart beating, comforting the tiny one that beats below it. Soft moist warm and cushioned in a sac of innocent and pure bodily fluid. Buoyant, playful. Made from essence of male and female cell. A womb where the love of my sisters housed there before me have shared the same space. A forgotten but vital Space. Why do elderly people ask for their mothers. People with dementia believe their mothers to be with them. Why does dying person revert back to an almost womb like state. The is sure to be a deep routed connection that never really ceases it just erases from our consciousness… then returns as we enter a more vulnerable living frail existence . It is a link between all these questions and the womb. The need to be cradled and protected. Secure and embodied in times of vulnerability, illness and death we are as in need of protection as the new born baby. Child's pose, fetal pose, it is no surprise they feel safe and allow us to go inside ourselves and perhaps our mothers once more. Babies reform their new born bodies into the womb position. They gradually lose this but even on the outside want to honour this space for a short while longer. Even though they can now be free to stretch far and wide. As a mother of a stillborn daughter I know that this womb space can still forever be occupied within our hearts. I once read that you didn't grow under my heart but in it. The womb is love, pure and vital. I felt cradled, held by my small dead child. She held me as much as I had longed and I held her. (And still do) then I felt as her mother that I released her soul from my heart into her and she became part of nature once again.

My response: What is your Drag? Negative people, darkness and those that moan a lot. Feeling overloaded, rushed and anxious. Feeling shouted at, got at, time poor. Social media and the disconnect this can also bring. What is your Thrust? Light and sunshine, injustice and the need to put things right. Difference different people. Different cultures, optimism and new openings. The colour turquoise. I try to deal with situations with humour or at least secretly see the humour in them. What Grounds you? Home, time alone to do things in my own time. Flowers and colours, walking in nature. Reflection but not too much. Music whatever mood I'm in whatever place i reside music gives me comfort, happiness, security and company. Holding people in my heart. Respecting the space they have left. How do you keep afloat or in flight? I practise yoga and walk meditatively. I surround myself with nurturing friends and family. I love the company of others but also my own solitude too so I have to keep a balance of both. What propels you forward? (Your huge heart? Your memory of where to find nourishment? Your ability to adapt? Your ability to change direction and focus on what resources you have within you? Your ability to drop excess baggage?) My ability to be with others, to listen and comfort. My desire to learn from others and allow this to shape me. My ability to wear many hats and keep many plates spinning. My resilience in times of vulnerability. My respect for my own vulnerability and others. This short clip made me think about maths and numbers. The whole sensation of numbers, as a feeling an emotion. The ability to learn and grow by being in the number not just a passive recipient of it. Much more thrust and grounding involved in this process. Let's look at Dr. Montessori's philosophy of life and education, in the founder's own words: And so we discovered that education is not something which the teacher does, but that it is a natural process which develops spontaneously in the human being. It is not acquired by listening to words, but in virtue of experiences in which the child acts on his environment. The teacher's task is not to talk, but to prepare and arrange a series of motives for cultural activity in a special environment made for the child.

I can remember my chrysalis it's the light seeping through the holes of the orange stitching in my 70s zoo animal sleeping bag as I hide in my bed or slide down the stairs! The security I felt in that hidden cosiness . A feeling of anticipation and joy. Will I remain trapped? Can I come up for air? Will my sister get off me it's hurting now. I've had enough I need To get out, cool down… As a child I was always surrounded by others for company. As I e grown older I value my own solitude. Being contrary though it's a great priveledgr to have close Sisters, parents, friends. Who act as guides to ease life's pains and mistakes, as we as share joy and achievement. As a child I had a sense if being loved and surrounded by love. In someways my chrysalis was hard to break free from. I was always told I couldn't cope with change, that I didn't adjust well. So secure perhaps, was I in my homely shell I, I found it hard to break out off, and didn't question why I needed too. That and this was confirmed on school trips away when I'd feel homesick even when my dad was there! From a young age I could spend time observing and listening. Creating ideas and thinking about people. I've always thought about people. being in the middle of a family this is a given. So as a teenager it was about sneakiness and mainly quiet rebellion. I rebelled enough just not in a shouty way. Enough to test the water safely. Smoking, drinking, going out with unsuitable boys in fast cars, I did all of that but kept most quiet fromMy family. I was secure in my friendships and they enabled me to shed some of my skin. Test new boundaries and develop new ideas and experiences. Someone once said to me once we live our lives backwards really. By this they meant that it's only at the end of our life that we are truly wise. I disagree I think I was naively wise then now I am probably less wise and sneaky, but More vulnerable and honest. I'm not sure if a young wise person or vulnerable honest person is forwards or backwards progress… even progress at all. Perhaps it's just way of acknowledging that experiences shape you and you choose how to shape yourself as a result of them. My soul is the same, I just express different parts of it. I'm not sure you ever really truly know yourself. It's a constant process, a 'noticing the gaps' process. As an older adult I chose a safe boyfriend and the chrysalis sleeping bag returned after the teenage hormones subsided. I spent happy years with him, but there was no fire in my belly. No dynamic that would change. I was unknowingly at first taking an alternative mind path that wasn't going to rejoin with his. My rebellion wasn't over I had regain part of my sneaky and rebellious teenage self. Longing for complete change, dynamism, and youthful fun. I spread my wings, but for a time there age 24 was 'becoming'. I think it's safe to say I still put my toes in that 70s sleeping bag at times, but it's not been zipped up since she 24! Where is my secret dwelling place now…, In a peaceful meadow, long orange grass and open blue skies. I Think this really means, a quietened heart, that flutters when I make those I love happy. For that in turn provides me with my happiness. (In some ways this is my muscle memory too) the need to touch others. A heart that searches for beauty in the spaces the in between. A heart that has a secret intrigue of where we all go next in this life time and the one after, and a joy that sacred souls will always stay bonded. The butterfly quote… from tidbinbilla. For my grandma. On the day she died I saw this and thought about her 98 years. We love each day but the years go fast twisting and turning out sense of time becomes tangible. Warped. Our transformation over time… I love this song it captures my mood about transformation. It has formed part of some of the sadder transformational moments in my life… a little furry transformational friend in my walk today

My moment of traction there are many. In someways I often feel only too aware of the thin veil between life and death. Palliative care has been part of my world for a long time now, as care giver you can get compassion fatigue. I've had times when I've needed to step out of this world to get back in with the land of the living. I whole heartedly see the privalige in working with others at thee d of their lives. It is a gift to be able to give to them love in the time that's is lefy. I am a snap shot of a persons story, a persons life. After all we are all just passing through. Sometimes it's grounding to be reminded of this, sometimes it's a bit too grounding and superficiality becomes quite appealing but unobtainable. I remember age 19, an elderly man dying on a ward in Leeds. I a student nurse, was expected to learn 'last offices' I helped lay out this gentleman after he'd died, with my nursing mentor. A caring and kind lady.. I remember the care she gave to him, how tender she was. The care she showed to me, to guide me through the clinically spiritual process. We went about our work, quietly and respectfully. Then as we stepped out of the curtains we resumed normal work again. The living still needed our care. Like the thin veil between life and death the curtain was mimicking this. In that moment I was forever changed by this experience. I had touch, smelt and seen the empty shell of a person I hardly knew. An elderly man who once had many stories to tell…

Hi Al, Hope day 1 is not too garbled!! 1. Attention- a sense of feeling loved and adored. For someone to be attentive towards you, they act in a way that makes you feel special, thought about, and present with you in that moment. Attention involves a deep genuineness towards the other. A desire to give your attention. It needs concentration and discipline at times so the other person feels you are being attentive. 2. Acceptance when a person allows you to be you. Non judgemental view on who you are. Able to see you in some perspective in times of conflict and annoyance. The longer and compassionate view. Facilitating you to accept yourself perhaps. 3. Appreciation- actions speak louder than words perhaps? In this sense this is the pure material meaning of the word. Tokens of appreciation can speak volumes. Flowers, meals, a Friday night take away, a surprise visit, treasures you give to a loved one to show you love them, think about them. That anticipation and joy when a person receives a gift they love. Sharing with each other. Being able to acknowledge when a person is trying to show love towards you. Even when times are hard it's about making time to think and share what you appreciate about them. Even if you have to dig deep. 4. Affection loving oneself, but also allowing your loved one to give affection. Affection is more of a physical term for me. It's the actual act of kissing, hugging, sexual intimacy. It's an appreciation of your body, your sense of masculinity or feminity and the attraction to one another drives affection. However the part of affection that is perhaps more ambiguous, is that It is also gentle and caring. Affection is physically transient but the emotional effect endures beyond the physical display. 5. Allowing- this to me is about 'going with it' part of a relationship, especially when energy is low or communication is tricky. There is something about allowing that may become a trigger that leads to conflict if the cycle of 'who is allowing who' is not gauged correctly between one another. Conflict between each other for example in situations where disagreements arise. Being able to overcome, grow and 'allow' for space between these turbulent times to reflect on what it is that drives the clash of opinion. Working through these experiences either together or apart and 'allowing' yourself and other person to feel how they need to feel, or to do what they need to do. This also involves a degree of self compassion so that one person is not always the 'allower' and the other person is the allowed! Balance is part of allowing. Balancing and being able to allow your own voice to be heard. Not overshadowing that other person. Not being blinkered to your own voice and stifling the other. He says that by giving and receiving these five A's, relationships become deeper and more meaningful, and they become a ground for personal transformation. I invite you today to consider what these words might mean to you, how do you create a sense of these for yourself… for others… how does it feel when someone else gives these qualities to you? Have you experienced their opposites…

Emily's wheel of life Analysis, So although I spend a lot of time helping others I have rated this as the largest area of fulfilment. Just as well with young children, a tired husband and a job dedicated to helping others I am glad to see that although I've recognised 'compassion fatigue' within myself at times, But i clearly get a great sense of enjoyment and fulfilment fromIt. So on some ways helping others is allowing me to help myself. It certainly challenges me so that's why I've marked it as EIn a par with this is 'Creativity' at a score of 10. Although I would like more time to be creative in a time boxed way. However I think I am good at seeing the creative in In most parts of my life. I like to think I have some capacity to be creative anywhere. At work I have to be spontaneously creative, think on my feet and expect the unexpected. There is a lot of dynamism about this. The garden, growing flowers, children's craft projects, working with clay, collecting shells, decorating my home, watching films, music, radio, reading all allow me to top up my creativity. H or E?? Friends and family rated at 10. I am very fortunate to have an amazing family. I get support and care from them as well and love and social enjoyment. My friends although spread far and wide, the majority I feel in contact with. Sometimes I wish I could put more into friends, and this puts my sense of fulfilment down a bit. I'd like to see some friends more often but I accept that other parts of my life need to have more of my energy right now. There are four parts of the wheel that score at 8. I'm wondering if that means I'm balanced or spreading myself too thinly?! Love and Relstonships. I am secure and satisfied with my relationship with my husband. I think we are often under pressure, we both set ourselves targets, driven to achieve. I would say we are both quite eudaemonical with our focus. We clash more over hedonimic aspects of our lives. We know we both need to support each other to 'self nurture' and we try to give each other space to do this. However when the butter is spread thinly, and there's only one piece of toast, who's going to eat it?! Me him? No the kids win every time. Is see it as a gentle tug of war. The thrust, drag, Pull and lift of our relationship is directed by external pressures and family. Perhaps we could do better at accepting the space we need and be more regimented about it. I think we are both pretty patient people. I'll leave this with one quote 'Shall we stay in bed all day and eat sweeties? 'my relationship goal! Work and finance: This is an area that I hold my hands up to not feeling very 'in control' of or feeling the need to be. In my relationship I'm the less dominant lead on this. My earning potential and capacity is suport my family financially is limited. I value my ability to support them emotionally and practically in different ways. I don't get fulfilment in a balancing the books sense. I get more fulfilment because I feel privileged to have a husband that supports our family financially and this allows me to have opportunities that we might not otherwise get. I am not able to contribute but this is limited and sometimes the work I do does not get the equivalent financial rewards it deserves. As a nurse we do not get recognised by government for the work we do. In the wider world the jobs about money get money. The jobs about people, care, education, creativity serve people much more, but give less financial recognition. This is an inverse system where money is what makes the world go round. Acts of kindness, love and time is really what gives us meaning. Heart Over head Practical Over Emotional Fun and recreation Evokes a sense of freedom, dancing, singing and sparkles of colour. Times with good people Times learning, expanding my mind art galleries, big cities, on a beach, live music, a dark cinema seat taking me into another world. It brings out the hedonistic, optimistic joyful inner child. In the company of good friends I become high on life! Regular doses of this are essential for fulfilment and release of pent up aggression, fear and stagnation. My image of sparkle and fun My sound of fun and escapism Drop the pressure. Really fucking loud. Preferably in a fast car. Physical Activity This is in someways more my spiritual side. Being physically active I get a sense of my 'outer self' running or walking in solitude gives me time to communicate with myself. I think a lot. I process a lot of what I experience 'in the world. 'I notice small things going on in life, a new lamb, a thrown away TV set on the roadside, a newly ploughed field. Potholes filled with rainwater on the tarmac. It brings me to a meditative state yoga bends my mind as well as my body. It is about the physical body aswell as the mental health of ones mind. Yoga is my MOT. It's brought me time to work through life's strains. It allows me to notice my body and my mind as a whole. So really I could get more fulfilment if I did more of this, but instead I appreciate what I do do. Physicality in my old job used to allow me to feel the touch I gave to my patients was nurturing them. I sometimes miss that. I don't miss the strain of this on my body. I think I almost felt 'worn out' with it. Health and Wellbeing I had a rather traumatic beginning to this year, this has had a huge impact on how I feel now. This is why it rateslowest in fulfilment for me right now. Although on a positive note it's much higher and more balanced than it would have been a few months ago… transformation happening here! I am 'getting' there and I think all the other aspects of the wheel reflect this. I am feeling much more stable and able to have perspective on what's happened and where I've come… My work as a cancer wellbeing soecialist I am primarily working with the health a wellbeing of others. Therefore I know what I should be doing but don't always give myself that permission to nurture my own wellbeing. I am learning. I recently attended a resilience workshop (see pillars of resilience below) these pillars show I score highly in helping others and social contact. This snapshot picture of what I need to work on, is im working on 'noticing the gaps'. In my transformation pls it's the keeping in touch with you part… solitude and gaps, meadows, light and space. Extension exercise I managed two days… 747 getting dressed, getting a three year old dressed!!!!!! E913 sat in a lecture theatre, infection control study day. One word TEDIOUS E1537 doing acupuncture clinic E952 still here!! But sneakily doing Evernote my mind can at least be elsewhere E1252 texting a friends about a peppa pig cinema trip E1536 escaped the lecture walking briskly to cAr H1610 food shopping E1753 collecting Imogen from nursery E1902 finishing eating dinner with girls E2136 sorting Sainsbury's Lego cards yo sell on eBay H2239 on my phone looking at trains to London for a course next week E914 writing script for filming H946 writing email about a collection for someone's leaving do at work E1642 leaving work late, completing Macmillan grant form for a patient. E1751 walking in the countryside for step challenge H1852 doing pottery H1938 pottery painting H2136 Lego again! H2230 bath H

Emily's comments: These are aspects that I feel align with me. Interestingly the only reason I know this is through my interactions with those around me. Interactions with people from all walks of life, cultures, class, professional and intimate relationships. Spreading you network as with the mapping exercise not only broadens your world it also expands the understanding of oneself. These stood out for me Trust optimism loyal and honest, open. Sense of authority with sincerity. Moon in LeoPeople want to create. Can be bossy at times. people can be dramatic in their emotional displays. When theirpride has been hurt, they are given to big scenes and sulking. This rarely happens inpublic, however. Lunar Leos are far too concerned about their image to make splashyscenes outside the comfort of their own homes. In public, they prefer to take things indignified ways. At home, however, they're given to big displays of emotional drama. These scenes generally don't last too long, however. Lunar Leos are often personally popular folk who are valued for their integrity and strong sense of justice. Generally, itis easy to reason with a Lunar Lion. I love this point this is really what I do! Appealing to their well-developed sense of fairnessusually works wellNaturally rebel against what is established. I avoid labelling others, friends with all walks of life. I stand up for underdog. right from when I was young I've always done this. No airs or graces. this is true I hope I come across as real to most people. Moodiness is a characteristic, definitely, and an especially subjectivenature makes you prone to hypersensitivity. It usually has to do with the fact that youtake in so very much from your environment. All medical, paramedic or social work are recommended She is very susceptible to the mood of those around her. A hard difficult upbringingcan mark her for life. When a child, has to be protected, given confidence. What I didn't agree with, but perhaps others see?? This also may have been me when I was younger but I am less prone to these kinds of behaviour now. I Don't always do step by step approach. Don't always take things in my stride. Maybe when I was younger but now I don't think the grass is greener on the other side As you grow through life behaviour that I perhaps once displayed has now dissolved. As a learning process I've observed what works well for me and what doesn't. The natal map made me think of a Dandelion clock. The circle of the map became a bit like a half blown dandelion clock. As I blew it away some bits still stuck. Out of those hundreds of seeds there were still points that were unconscious or not ready to take flight into the world A little like the model of a Johari window, of what others see and I do not. What I see and know and others don't, what others and I both do not see or know. I loved the contradictory part of this. It helped me to understand multidimensional aspects of myself. The clashes that cause psychological disturbance within me at times. Like the dandelion clock. Some clusters of seeds may never take route, some blow away, some grow and develop. Others will be a weedy pain, some will make more delight, generations of dandelion clocks for little children to blow. Some will just stick to your clothes and get put in the wash. Others will jump out at times you least expect. Some are gentle, some are fragile. Some get lost in the grass, some stand out vibrantly, some take to the sky or even the stars. After all that's where it's all written for us.

1983 perhaps. A day much like it is today. The greens of the May countryside bursting into life. The slight hover of a darker day undertone. Clouds full of grey. An exciting grey, and warm may grey not the grey of a bleak January day. Red wellie boots and a rain mac. A garden centre in the drizzle. Rain dropping down a window In a green house. Watching the drops magnify the green of the leaves that push against the glass outside. Whole sensory experience of being and observing feeling and growing from it. Journeying with the raindrops down the glass, being inside the raindrop perhaps. More than just watching, feeling how that raindrop feels as it slides down the glass pane. My mother nearby, talking to me and taking about things. Me hearing not listening. Garden terracotta pots. Red boots, rain, green, full sensory being the fresh air, the close time with my mummy. Love. That small little girl surrounded by row after row of pots and plants. And then back to the rain on the window of the green house. Then the sensation of puddles, puddles overflowing into my wellies. Wet tights. Soggy journey home. A steep driveway. Scrambled Egg.

Well I experience this last night. First hand through my husband. He is constantly distracted by his phone due to incoming work. These conversations on an app called 'slack' infiltrate into his evenings and weekends. He is pressured to be available in case there is an important matter kicking off that might need instant attention. I see how this invasion into his private life takes its toll on our personal life. It stifles conversations, stops present enjoyment in the here and now. I see this n myself too and evenings where I've set about to do something nice… read a book… phone a friend… I find myself two hours later lost in my phone apps with finger and neck ache… It is no wonder that mindfulness and meditation are something that everyone craves. It's like we are all having to retrain our brains to become less active, less electronic to the constant stimulation around us. I am a Facebook user, but I call it nose book really. I am not entirely comfortable about sharing my world with everyone else. This is not because I don't embrace sharing, celebration and connecting with others. In all honesty it doesn't give me the connection I need. It's third hand observation with a unknowing undertone of competitiveness. I see stories of friends weekend plans, religious thoughts, new babies, birthday, memes of wisdom, glamorous holidays, adverts for the latest yoga leggings, news that a person has just donated their eggs, news there is a fete in the next village next Saturday, news of birth and death, happy times, tragedy, news fromDown under summertime and up over British wintertime… the paradoxes, clashes and sheer volume of information is overwhelming. Just a click of a button and we get our selves down many a rabbit hole… instead of feeling grateful for this connection with others, I start to feel overloaded, dumbed down, encroached upon… STOP I want to be gracious about all this but I cant find it in me the capacity to reach our genuinely to each and everyone of you. I so touched you've shared a thought, picture or celebration with me, but whilst I'm sitting on my couch, 1030pm at night I haven't choosen to think about you. When I see you there, you are in my front room, provoking anxiety, joy or love. The feelings can be positive or negative, but I didn't want that just now I just wanted to watch crap tv, and stroke the cat. So instead perhaps treasuring the newsfeed on social media I have decided I'll go back to valuing the unique phone calls, the chance meetings and the smile of a real person in real life. This leaves less obligation and invasion on my own soul.

Before Traction Aha ‘Moment’ What next? Choice points, insight into action, transit, transformation… I am the third daughter/sister I have to go along with it all. Sitting on a swing- my sisters singing Emily we love you Emily we do. Wow I have a lot of love around me. If I avoid it, it might go away. Sitting in my reception classroom quietly until break so I could avoid doing maths. I can run but I can't hide! It's exciting to steal Taking the neighbours plastic pond ducks and dinosaur. Getting caught and told off. It's wrong to steal I don't cope well with my younger sisters tantrums. Falling off the rocking horse. My sister hurt her eye. She screamed at me. I had to pretend I was also hurt to avoid her rage. I have to display empathy to make others know I care. I have parents that love each other Dad going to live in Norfolk for the week for work. Mum fed up and lonely. My parents don't always see eye to eye. Life is tough on Mum. I am fearful of the sea. Getting almost swept away by a wave on a cliff on holiday. Dad 'saving me'. Someone is looking out for me and my fears. I am grown up now Having a boy over to stay whilst my parents are on holiday. He turns out to be a wrong un. I am not that grown up. Living in Melton makes you a 'Towny' Meeting my best friend Vic at secondary school and realising variety was the spice of life. Difference is fun. You're a home bird. Moving to Leeds to study nursing. Meeting new friends and being independent. You can go it alone. Accept your lot. Deciding to leave my long term boyfriend, selling the house we'd bought and living on my own in a cute flat. You can be free and not tied down. I want to remain free and single age 24 Meeting my husband to be in a bar one night, staying at his flat and hiding from his Mum visit the next day. Listen to your heart not head got married. My body won't loose this baby. My first miscarriage age 28 I am broken. I would love a little girl. The birth of my daughter Helena age 30 My dream came true. I need to stay on track. The opportunity to travel to Australia to live with my little family. Sometimes opportunities are too good to miss even if it means leaving a lot behind. My baby will be here soon. The tragic loss of my second stillborn daughter Susie. You can't control anything. You have to know a person for yonks for them to show deep support If I get back to normal I'll be fixed I can't cope with another pregnancy. I am competent at my job. Seats full of people I'd only know for under two years at Susies funeral showing their love. Moving back to U. K. And work. Giving birth to my third daughter rainbow baby Imogen. Making a huge mistake at work. Sending me into trauma. Connections can become deep in a very short space of time. I still can't run and hide. Only time heals. I have survived. She has survived. I restore faith in my body. I am hard on myself. I need to forgive myself.

Emily Rose Lucy Corps 28/11/1980 time 7. 21am. G'day, My birthday. 2012. First November 28th spent in 28 degrees early Aussie summer. I shouldn't have been surprised after all everything had turned on its head that year. Winter had become Summer. Dressing gown had become flip flops. Birth had become death and the togetherness of other birthdays became solitude. Sleeping under red canvas, this orangery red like that of a enclosed womb space. Waking up to the sound of the Australian dawn chorus. The laughter of the kookaburra quite the opposite to my own desire to laugh. Glad he was happy all the same. Alone in a tent. Alone with my thoughts. Age 32. Feeling at least double this. Wondering if I should be 32 to anyway. My birthday had not even arrived in the depths of English winter. It would have been 27th November there… I'd Never had a birthday before where I'd woken alone. Birthdays aren't really alone things. They are to be shared. That said I was happy to share it peacefully with myself. My cards laid out the night before, on the bright rag rug under my camp bed. As I opened them I gave my thought and love to every person that had shared their wishes with me. Treasured their handwriting as a unique part of them. Their spirit with me. Although the difference with this birthday was I wasn't really alone, and never for any other birthday would I be again. I had birthed my own angel only a few months before. I held her as the greatest of all gifts that morning. The mist of my grief I saw her gift. In the nature all around me, of which she and I were a part of. The last night of 31 there was a tremendous thunderstorm. Inside the tent, alone I experienced the force of nature, the elements at their most fierce. I trusted that shelter to keep me safe and dry to protect me to house me on to the threshold of 32. It did. I needed to begin to trust nature again. My own nature had let me down, my body had not sustained a life for a long as it needed. or perhaps really it hadn't it had just become something else entirely. Out of my control. A a gentle morning followed. Turbulent times have to surrender to calmer horizons. A day spent in yoga poses, swimming amongst water Lilly pads. A symbol of serenity. In some ways this wasn't my younger self. It was an older self back then. I'm learning to be younger again. Freer and more accepting of the inner me. My needs don't always shout out, I sometimes need to just listen to the whispers. But why would this surprise me? As I said it was an upside down birthday that year. My walk to the corner shop to get cat food. Noticings along the way. Natures angels, Look both ways, Nourish your power, Looking after, careStay close. One day you will be reborn. I learnt all that glad we'd run out of cat food. 🐈II

Tickle Time. I got a bit lost with this one Al. Then I realised it was staring my In the face. I had escaped for 30 mins to do some Evernote time. Guess how long it took to be tracked down? 10 mins… not bad really I got a little way in to the you tube clip and read the post you'd created. Then came a request for tickle time. So I recorded it for you. To me this is living outside with my children. They crave those moments of closeness and touch. Attention, interaction and love. Little one detected me first. I tried to ignore her, hide in my sunny white bedroom. But her 'where's mummy? 'requests got desperate. So I gave in.' 'I'm on here' I said. In she bounded strawberry covered face. Craving a cuddle. A few minutes later the big girl arrived. In her high pitched 6 year old voice. 'Mummy can we do tickle time?! 'How could I resist? So there we have it. Short but sweet noticings for day 5 but please listen to the words spoken by my eldest daughter as to why she loves tickle time. 'It makes me feel loved' she said ❤️

In my bagA piece of clay that I could form and reform A book called my grandfathers blessingsMy wedding dressA photograph of my childrenXavier Rudd follow the sun songOn a day like this Elbow song GlitterNotebook and penFamous person if share with would need to be someone funny. A comedian perhaps Jo brand? She seems to understand the fine life between happiness and sorrow. She shares the experience of being a nurse but has undergone transformation in her life to become famous and in the public eye. She's funny so she'd make me laugh. She keeps it real. She's also slightly mad so I admire the spirit in which she embraces this. I'd camp. I love camping. It would be in New Zealand. North island. Beautiful. We'd share stories by a campfire, laugh and reflect on the oddities of life. I think there'd be a lot Observational humour. I'd like to scratch the surface and get underneath her dry sense of humour to see what's really going on. I think it would be a good challenge but a worthwhile one. I'd share my objects with her, but not much I think she'd be intrigued by my choices but I can't imagine anyone really knowing why I chose them. I think I'd like that because it would mean I could share without having to explain myself if I didn't want to. I take The dress and glitter to celebrate the feminine in myself that ever sparkle and the strong draw I have to sparkle and the need to wear it, be it, play with it. The multi dimensional nature of sparkle the unending kaleidoscope of colour and light it gives. The songs and the book, because they are a bit like my mental first aid kit. Escape and support all at the same time. Photos because it's a love like no other. Mothers love. And those faces are to be treasured. Clay- because I can feel out my experiences. Explore my emotions through the touch of what I form on that day. It tells me how things I am feeling. Notebook and pen- it's going to be transformational that's for sure, so if need to record it all down! Piha beach, lion rock NZ

A talk with my bereaved neighbour. I invited him to walk the ten minute walk into town as we both stepped out of our houses at the same time. Other than neighbourly pleasantries we have only really had brutish polite contact. His wife committed suicide only 6 weeks ago. He is in the midst of grief and suffering deep sadness. After his loss and I felt I needed to reach out to him. Only a few days before I had left a sunflower on his doorstep in the hope that this would trigger some contact, bring him some light. It was a chance meeting after I'd tried to make contact but he wasn't there. As we walked into town he thanked me for the sunflower politely. He said he neglected it for a few days and it had drooped. Sure enough after a little water it had picked back up. I felt this was a good image for him to focus on. As we walked and talked I thanked him for letting me in to his wife's world at her funeral. I praised his bravery and words. That was enough talking from me. I listened as he talked about his journey of grief so far. He told me about how it couldn't have been any other way. He said 'she was a strong woman- she needed to be present at her funeral' He felt acknowledgement in that moment. It felt good to him to say her name, I could tell. I reflected on grief it twists and turns it's transformations. ' It's a long journey' I said, 'one you have to be with'. ' I'm with it, he said. ' in at the stage where I wake in the morning and realise it's still true' I've just 'had that'. I looked at him, at his face, his determined focus to walk, his lack of eye contact, unshaven. EMERSIONWalking together there was no pressure for eye contact. We were side by side, walking together, a walking listening presence. He said 'People tell me I should go back to work, go back to normal'I thought it's never going to be normal, why could you enforce that on yourself? I said ' you do what you need' PROMPTHe said ' I lost a friend five years ago' I know I was angry I don't think anger is good. I can't let it eat me up this time''The whys have crept in, could I have done anything? I'm trying to let them be with me'I said 'you did all you could still it's so hard, and normal to ask why… 'REFLECTION As we neared thee d of the narrow walk way we'd just been through we parted ways. He was collecting his car, after a night out before drinking with friends. I was off to my yoga class. Outside was a queue of people waiting to go in. He saw someone he recognised, and clearly wanted to avoid. He broke off quickly and walked on. DETACHMENT It was an abrupt finish. The recognised lady said 'how's Sam?' 'It's hard for him' I said. This conversation made me feel grateful that we'd walked out our doors at the same time that morning. It's rare that I'm alone and free to talk. I wanted to convey my care and thoughts towards him. It started with a sunflower and ended with a powerful chat- one I could not have imagined ever having with this stoic British gentleman. In that moment he was a vulnerable shell of a man undergoing Sep transformation, adjusting to a life without his wife. Without what was. If I'd not stopped, offered a walk and talk his voice might not have been heard. Thank you. 'Love thy neighbour' The other day I poundered over her funeral service booklet. I looked at her photo of her smiling face with her back Labrador. I said my goodbyes once again and thoughtfully placed it into the recycling. I felt Wrong to do this but I didn't want to hold on to it. I wAs never going to read it again. It's hard to know what respectful and what's not… my intention when I placed it in there was for it to be reborn, transformed into a new book, a new story, made in someway from hers.

There we have it! It's been like a complicated game of guess who, or writing a Christmas card list! There is always a few you miss off! That's a traction point when do you leave someone in the past and when do you know to hold on? Sometimes we hold on too long, inappropriately and clumsliy. Other relationships go stagnant, whilst some keep being rejuvenated like fresh daisies staring at the sunshine buyont and affirming. I think I remember someone saying to me once, how amazing it is at turning points in your life. A bit like two paths will you cross at the same time? Will that chance meeting occur? Or will it psss us by? remarkable relationships, that sometimes fade into nothing. ?? Everyone we meet holds a moment in time for us. Touches us. I like the thought of holding a place in my heart for each being that has touched me. Formed me in someway. I just rembered I needed to add Linda and Nat onto the lost touch, FB, still care about and part!

Darkness drags. Lightness and sunshine lift. Turquoise. Difference. Flowers ground me. Music. Holding people in my heart. Respecting the space they have left. Balancing solitude and company… walking meditatively, listening quietly. My ability to wear many hats and keep many plates spinning. My resilience in times of vulnerability. My respect for my own vulnerability and others. Let's look at Dr. Montessori's philosophy of life and education, in the founder's own words: And so we discovered that education is not something which the teacher does, but that it is a natural process which develops spontaneously in the human being. It is not acquired by listening to words, but in virtue of experiences in which the child acts on his environment. The teacher's task is not to talk, but to prepare and arrange a series of motives for cultural activity in a special environment made for the child.

Day 7: Noticings. Day 17: Noticings. Swedish Style!!! Midsummer Soiree!! Day 11. Noticings. Day 21: Noticings. Day 1 & 2 Individual Noticings. Day 4. Individual Noticings. Day 9: Noticings. Clinically Spiritual Processes. Day 10 Noticings (2) Day 6: Noticings. Day 5: Individual Noticings. Day 8: Noticings. Day 16: Noticings. Day 20: Noticings. Love thy neighbour as yourself. Day 18: Noticings. Day 3. Noticings. Day 14: Noticings. Interactions help you know yourself… Day 12: Noticings. Day 19: Noticings. Day 15: Noticings. Day 13. Noticings. Affirmation Traction Brought Transition. Day 10: Noticings. You fucking pervert! Keep Away From the Straying Walking Stick.

Emily: I love my Em. Before I even read your note I love and hold you my gorgeous sister and Susie. Nine months inside, a growing being. A soul formed and getting ready to take its earthly form. A place where your needs are met, without having to ask. Sounds and light blurred and dumbed down by the presence of a pulse beating. One big heart beating, comforting the tiny one that beats below it. Made from essence of male and female cell. A womb where the love of my sisters housed there before me have shared the same space. A forgotten but vital Space. Why do elderly people ask for their mothers. People with dementia believe their mothers to be with them. Why does dying person revert back to an almost womb like state. (That is so so interesting…) Babies reform their new born bodies into the womb position. They gradually lose this but even on the outside want to honour this space for a short while longer. Even though they can now be free to stretch far and wide. I once read that you didn't grow under my heart but in it. The womb is love, pure and vital. (This is so beautiful – it made me cry…) Love you Em. I felt cradled, held by my small dead child. She held me as much as I had longed and I held her. (And still do) then I felt as her mother that I released her soul from my heart into her and she became part of nature once again. (Yes I felt her too, holding us both as we held her…) I love you. Al X Thank you Al. I hope you're ok and not too frantic with it all. I'm enjoying the journey although I think I sound bonkers!!! Happy weekend, thacks for the safe space xxx

It's the GORGEOUS Wham duo who make the heart of the teenage girls race 😃 Outside the cuckoo SPIT sends out a PRISM of rainbow light that EMBALMS the underside of a foxglove leaf. 'Wake me up before you go go because I ain't planning on going solo! Wake me up!!!! 'The stories threaded together share a sense of needing to belong, comforted and connected… But NOT in the wrong hands. Sometimes. Empathy Fatigue is also OK. Sisters are doing it for themselves and together they protect the girls that come after, before, between and alongside us… 😊❤️ When do you leave someone in the past and when do you know to hold on? Everyone we meet holds a moment in time for us. Forming us in someway… Choices. Shall I stay or shall I go now…

Although I've recognised 'compassion fatigue' within myself at times, I clearly also get a great sense of enjoyment and fulfilment from it. Creativity and helping others equal and creative/fulfilling. I am very fortunate to have an amazing family. I get support and care from them as well and love and social enjoyment. I am secure and satisfied with my relationship with my husband. I think we are often under pressure, we both set ourselves targets, driven to achieve. I would say we are both quite eudaemonical with our focus. We clash more over hedonimic aspects of our lives. We know we both need to support each other to 'self nurture' and we try to give each other space to do this. However when the butter is spread thinly, and there's only one piece of toast, who's going to eat it?! Me him? No the kids win every time. As a nurse we do not get recognised by government for the work we do. In the wider world the jobs about money get money. The jobs about people, care, education, creativity serve people much more, but give less financial recognition. This is an inverse system where money is what makes the world go round. Acts of kindness, love and time is really what gives us meaning.

I have a lot of love all around me. Always. Sometimes it is ok to run, but I cannot hide forever. It's wrong to steal (unless it was yours to take back in the first place). Freedom. All my emotions are valid and shows how I feel. My parents don't always see eye to eye. It's good to be real rather than pretend. Life is a process of continuing growth and sometimes I feel small. Someone is always looking out for me and acknowledging my fears. Difference is fun. I can go it alone. I can choose accompanied. You can be free and not tied down. Listen to your heart not head always. I am broken but my dream came true. Sometimes opportunities are too good to miss even if it means leaving a lot behind. You can't control anything. Connections can become deep in a very short space of time. I am no longer running and hiding. Only time heals. I have survived. She has survived. I restore faith in my body. I am too hard on myself. I need to forgive myself.

Emily: ‘I've always thought about people, being in the middle of a family this is a given.’ Now I am probably less wise and sneaky, but more vulnerable and honest. My soul is the same, I just express different parts of it. I'm not sure you ever really truly know yourself. It's a constant process, a 'noticing the gaps' process. I spent happy years with him, but there was no fire in my belly. No dynamic that would change. Longing for complete change, dynamism, and youthful fun. I think it's safe to say I still put my toes in that 70s sleeping bag at times, but it's not been zipped up since I was 24! Where is my secret dwelling place now… in a peaceful meadow, long orange grass and open blue skies… I think this really means, a quietened heart, that flutters when I make those I love happy I love this song it captures my mood about transformation. It has formed part of some of the sadder transformational moments in my life… Dusty hands. Slender fingers. White tulips. Beach hands. Small hand big hand. I give to you Mummy.

His wife committed suicide only 6 weeks ago. He is in the midst of grief and suffering deep sadness. After his loss and I felt I needed to reach out to him. Only a few days before I had left a sunflower on his doorstep in the hope that this would trigger some contact, bring him some light. As we walked into town he thanked me for the sunflower politely. He said he neglected it for a few days and it had drooped. Sure enough after a little water it had picked back up. I felt this was a good image for him to focus on. Lost wife. Lost child. I reflected on grief it twists and turns it's transformations. 'It's a long journey' I said, 'one you have to be with’. Walking together there was no pressure for eye contact. We were side by side, walking together, a walking listening presence. It started with a sunflower and ended with a powerful chat- one I could not have imagined ever having with this stoic British gentleman.

Process Emily. In flowers and strawberries. Guinea Pig Distraction one down one to get! Chase. 'Take a chance on me’Suspicions. Curiosity. Fact finding. Relaxation. He brought with him a music playlist that were all songs that reminded him of me. As we exchange many stories about these moments. We chatted about photographs we had of happy times together, of actual photographs and those held in his head. The happy sad and curious. The times alone, as a young free couple and then the times when our babies arrived and grew. I felt fairy like, floral and free! I scattered the table with rose petals (for you Al) you can have them back I saved them. (ROSE BOAT FOR EMILY ROSE). Beautiful…

Emily: Inner Knowing. Knowing and not Saying. Saying and not Knowing. You fucking pervert! 'Keep them away from his straying walking stick. 'It's funny isn't it?' 'What?' 'It's not how a person is… it's how they make you feel’ 'That man, he's strange.'… 'yes', I always cross the street if I see himself coming' But my inner dialogue is saying ‘maybehe'sillmaybehe'sgotsomekindofmemorylossordementiamaybeIneedtogoeasyon himbelessjudgementalormaybenothejustmakesmefeelodd’ I don't like my children near him. He's too interested in my children. Protect them. 'Keep away from my children. You fucking pervert!' 'Oooh she's crying'… 'pick her up'… 'Yes Daddy… that's how she likes it'…’ In that moment I felt sick. His tone of voice was all wrong. It was all about the tone… emotion… intention. GO. Merging stories… The sense of vulnerability in others. The journeys that we all go on alone. The inner dialogue that we all experience bonds us. ‘It's like when you think of someone, and then they call you.’ Hello, Em – I was just thinking of you…

Interactions with people from all walks of life, cultures, class, professional and intimate relationships. Spreading you network as with the mapping exercise not only broadens your world it also expands the understanding of oneself. Trust optimism loyal and honest, open. Sense of authority with sincerity. At home, however, they're given to big displays of emotional drama. Lunar Leo. As you grow through life behaviour that I perhaps once displayed has now dissolved. As a learning process I've observed what works well for me and what doesn’t. Dandelion clock. Some clusters of seeds may never take route, some blow away, some grow and develop. A little like the model of a Johari window, of what others see and I do not. What I see and know and others don't, what others and I both do not see or know. 'Clashes that cause psychological disturbance within me at times. ’ Emily: Feminine Flowers… the Little Emily ‘Rose’. Thank you. Need to understand the Lucy bit 😉 xx To the great listener… my sister… drops have different faces… memories… stories… voices… systems… structures… Water remembers different flowers Emily Rose… :) 

Emily: The JOY of tickle time!!! JOY JOY JOY!!! The best thing about having my Mummy is that she does lots of tickles!!!! To me this is living outside with my children. They crave those moments of closeness and touch. Attention, interaction and love. 'It makes me feel loved' she said ❤Sunlight and laughter. What more could anyone need…:) 

I often feel only too aware of the thin veil between life and death. I've had times when I've needed to step out of this world to get back in with the land of the living. I am a snap shot of a person’s story, a person’s life. After all we are all just passing through. Sometimes it's grounding to be reminded of this, sometimes it's a bit too grounding. Emotional Fatique. I remember age 19, an elderly man dying on a ward in Leeds. I was expected to learn 'last offices'. I helped lay out this gentleman after he'd died with my nursing mentor a caring and kind lady. ‘I remember the care she gave to him, how tender she was. The care she showed to me, to guide me through the clinically spiritual process.’ We went about our work, quietly and respectfully. Then as we stepped out of the curtains we resumed normal work again. The living still needed our care. Like the thin veil between life and death the curtain mimicked this. In that moment I was forever changed by this experience. I had touch, smelt and seen the empty shell of a person I hardly knew. Peggy Phelan’s Unmarked: The Politics of Performance constitutes the most extended example of this theorization; in it, she sketches out an ontological relation between the event of performance and its subsequent disappearance. According to Phelan, performance’s only life is in the present. Performance cannot be saved, recorded, documented… Performance’s being… becomes itself through disappearance (1993, 146). Court rooms too… ‘I wanted people to feel the presence of the absent’ Simon McBurney (Complicite A 2016) Amazing quote, rings true Al x

Emily: It is no wonder that mindfulness and meditation are something that everyone craves. It's like we are all having to retrain our brains to become less active, less electronic to the constant stimulation around us. I am a Facebook user, but I call it nose book really. I am not entirely comfortable about sharing my world with everyone else. This is not because I don't embrace sharing, celebration and connecting with others. In all honesty it doesn't give me the connection I need. It's third hand observation with a unknowing undertone of competitiveness. Instead of feeling grateful for this connection with others, I start to feel overloaded, dumbed down, encroached upon… So instead perhaps treasuring the newsfeed on social media I have decided I'll go back to valuing the unique phone calls, the chance meetings and the smile of a real person in real life. This leaves less obligation and invasion on my own soul. Imprints of real life on the soul…

Day 1: Presence of another. Deep genuineness. Concentration. Discipline. The long view of compassion through shortcomings. Languages of love – vary… Digging deep… Emotional and physical affection… Allowing and ‘allowing’… control… Day 2: I’m a nesty kind of person. Brown to Colour. Pregnancies. Smelly Rug. Pleasure. Satisfaction. Sanctuary. Comfort. Teddy’s in slippers. Intimacy and safety. Hide and seek. Den Building. Safe. Secure. Tree house. Hide out. Secrecy. Excitement. Potions. Cigarettes. Donkeys. Rainforests. Travel. Outside/inside. Emily Nest Box. Hard nests. Building and failing. Collared. Restrained. Trying and forgetting. Broken egg shells. Detail. Attention. Beauty. Traps. Holding. Captured. Prison. Take flight. Flee. Feeling architecture. Building buildings of memory. A piece of clay I could form and reform. Glitter. Grandfathers blessings. Follow the sun… My children… mothers love like no other…

Emmie now its mine turn for this disappearing act! I replied to this one and it has gone… I’ll try again XXXXI replied again and it disappeared twice. Third time lucky and a note from ‘Word’ ‘Word has repaired this document. Do you want to see changes? The changes will now be saved’. How weird and wonderful is that Suzy at work! 😉 Defo. Synergy and her wanting to be heard 😃… Sister Susie Bea. Emily Rose Lucy Corps 28/11/1980 time 7.21am. Feeling 64. Wondering if I should be 32 anyway? Everything has turned on its head this year. Deep dark winter becomes early Aussie summer. Dressing gown, flip-flops. Birth, death and the togetherness of other birthdays. Solitude. Sleeping under red canvas, the orangery-red of enclosed womb space. Birthdays aren't really alone things. They are to be shared. I wake. Alone in the tent. The laughter of the kookaburra, quite the opposite to my own desire to laugh. Glad he is happy all the same. My upside down birthday has not even arrived yet. It is 27th November 2012 at home, and freezing. Under my camp bed. Secrets await. I dip my hand. Touching the unopened envelopes on the bright rag rug. I open cards, I give thoughts and love to every person that has shared their love with me. I trace and treasure their handwriting. Unique. Families, lovers, friends touch me. My little girl touches me. Felt, held, seen. My Angel. Here in nature all around me. She and I. The greatest of all gifts this morning. Last night there was a tremendous thunderstorm. Inside the tent, orangey-red. I experienced the force of nature, the elements fierce. I trusted the shelter to keep me safe, dry, warm. To protect me, house me, on the threshold of 32. It did. I begin to trust nature again. My own nature had let me down. My body had not sustained her life for a long as it needed. Or perhaps it had. She has just become something else entirely? Out of my control. Wild, strong, free. Part of me and a part from me dancing. Together. Turbulent times surrender to calmer horizons. Yoga poses swimming amongst waterlily pads. Sinking back at night underneath the water, born again in the light of the day. Padding and paddling. A symbol of serenity. Pink. Tall. Strong. Wise. A gentle morning. In some ways this wasn't my younger self. It was my older self. I'm learning to be younger again. Free, more accepting of inner Emil-me. My needs don't always shout out. Sometimes I just listen to the whispers. My walk to the corner shop to get cat food. Noticing’s along the way. I learnt all that. But why does this surprise me? Natures Angels. Look both ways when you cross the road. Hoppity Skippity. Nourish your power. Look after each other. Care. Stay close. And one day you will be reborn. A part from me, and a part of me dancing. Together. I was happy to share that peacefully with myself. As I said it was an upside down birthday that year. Kookaburra Sits In The Old Gum Tree

Journeying with the raindrops down the glass, being inside the raindrop perhaps. More than just watching, feeling how that raindrop feels as it slides down the glass pane. Me hearing not listening. Red boots, rain, surrounded by row after row of pots and plants. And then back to the rain on the window of the green house. Then the sensation of puddles, puddles overflowing into my wellies. Em you write so beautifully I am really enjoying being inside your head and feelings with you you the watcher you who takes everything in and are so poetic and it is is touching to feel you flow back out towards me. Thank you so much for sharing…