Participant 14 spoke of the space ‘between us’. does ‘us’ exist somewhere independent from the relationship? Biologist and constructivist thinker H. Maturana's (1990) idea of structural coupling refers to how we are changed by every action, that means every word, every touch, every being and thing we inter-act with. Our structure is changed as much as is theirs. becoming is interacting. 'absorbed', yes the quality of the interacting is absorbed. we are the dance. 'ingested and returned'… (M) othering. Wilfred Bion on knowledge as giving back something that can be made sense of? (check) attachment theory (J. Bowlby, 1907. 1990) ‘an innate need for proximity’ between mothers and infants imprinting theory (K. Lorenz, 1935) the formation of attachment relationships happens during a critical period (32 hours for geese), after which it is not likely to occur all true, and what about the fathers? Are we attaching, imprinting or standing side by side? My first reaction is of noticing with surprise how you remember things! 1993 your reading a poem for the first time! but why do you remember that? According to Psychoanalyst D. Winnicott (1971) culture can be thought of as the mothering pool of humanity that offers transitional objects to relate to and discover/recover parts of self. A poem ('Apology') spoke and speaks for your scattered fragments? Participant 8 (Mum): ‘standing beside another’ as 'letting each person take responsibility so they may walk their own road’apologizing? Mum’s theory of upbringing (fours girls). Are you and Mum renegotiating your structural coupling, or more evocatively your dance of interacting parts? Are you both rebirthing your relationship of mother-daughter? Thank you Alice for your very moving story, I feel privileged to be side by side in this research journey. I have found that research could become a nocturnal Circle Line allowing me to ask questions unasked, dwell with body-mind clashes, carry and be carried, imagine things to be otherwise. I also wish I could have a beer with you! I also thank Participant 17 (and your Mum) for telling you to take take care of yourself. We are already doing 'good enough'. LOVE Extract from my own PhD thesis: When I asked my mother about an image that she associated with knowing, she said 'a blanket with holes in it'… We spoke more about the image of the blanket, and I suggested that a blanket also keeps you warm. This insight… helped us see something already present inside this metaphor: a self-healing, creative (a hand made blanket), and sensuous relationship to knowing.

Day 6. Gaia on Feminine copy Day 3. Response. Gaia on Touch copy Day 4. Gaia on Womb copy Day 21. Backpacking copy Day 20. Unfinished conversations copy Day 9. Gaia on The loss of it. copy Day 2. Response. Gaia on nesting copy Day 18. Hummingbird inside out copy Day 7. Gaia on Digital Intimacy copy Day 1. Response. Gaia on relationships copy Day 5. Gaia on Rewriting You copy Day 16. Caterpillar instructions copy Day 14. B-earth skies copy Day 8. Gaia on Thresholds copy Day 10. Gaia colliding copy Day 11. Before. Walk. After. copy Day 13. Gaia's Traction points copy Day 17. Soupposition project copy Day 12. Gaia about Structural Holes copy Day 15. Traction into Transformation! copy Day 19. Wheel of Life

How do I nest? I nest by choosing objects that have personal association, affective value, memory, imaginative resonance, objects of desire that make my home alive. I grow plants. I make tea which I get far away and bring home like birds. I appropriate family objects for my nest: great-grandmother's wardrobe, a cousin's mirror, mother's knitted shawl. Mostly I read books in bed. I open my nest to friends and cook us meals. Nesting is relaxation and clearing. I cannot but build nests wherever I live. My current nest in Milano I redesigned while I lived in the UK, which gave me the right distance to imagine myself in it inheriting a nest by transforming it. Today I brood my egg here and it feels safe enoughto prepare a new fly. Franco Battiato's (1981) Gliuccelli Volano gliuccelli volano Nello spazio tra le nuvoleCon le regole assegnate A questa parte di universo Al nostro sistema solare Aprono le ali Scendono in picchiata atterrano meglio di aeroplani Cambiano le prospettive al mondo Voli imprevedibili ed ascese velocissime Traiettorie impercettibili Codici di geometria esistenziale Migrano gli uccelli emigranoCon il cambio di stagione Giochi di aperture alari Che nascondono I segreti Di questo sistema solare Aprono le ali Scendono in picchiata atterrano meglio di aeroplani Cambiano le prospettive al mondoVoli imprevedibili ed ascese velocissime Traiettorie impercettibili Codici di geometria esistenziale Volano gli uccelli volano Nello spazio tra le nuvoleC on le regole assegnate A questa parte di universoAl nostro sistema solare Fabbri and Munari's (2010) Metaphors of knowledge cards gave me this image of nest: A lightly held knitting with a clearing holeto breath. Growing plants found on in the street. My mother's shawl.

Are there any further useful traction points of cross-reference, resonance and resource in relation to your birth skies that might be worth recording? What seems to align? What seems untrue? What insights/resistances offer traction? Any more ‘aha’ moments in image, word, thought, sense, action, colour, sound, hue? My B-earth Sky is blue and vast with potential for growth, birds, winds, clouds, rain, fog, airplanes, acid rains, bees, balloons, aerostats, sky skaters, kites, music, Sahara sand, fireworks, bombing, dawns, sunsets, reverie, constellation, space shuttles, dead relatives, the Red Baron, Santa Claus, the baby Jesus, witches, and moon. Natal chart alignments worth recording: Sun in Aquarius Many Aquarians aim to free themselves of personal and social conditioning There is a bit of reformer in Aquarius Aquarians need space and value personal freedom Sun in VIII You are attracted to unexplored or taboo areas of life Financial problems may ease after marriage I so much wait for it! :-P Conjunction Sun Jupiter You're generally not very competitive, and for the most part not combative either (could be more?) Square Sun Pluto You put a lot of pressure on yourself regarding your own endeavors Moon in Aquarius The Moon represents the emotional responses, unconscious pre-destination, and theself-image Moon in Aquarius people often grow up feeling different. Although rather sociable, they are often loners at heart Moon in IX Contact with foreigners. Long journeys Trying to avoid the attitude that the grass is greener on the other side will be important Sextile Moon Uranus She is imaginative and has the Moon's intuition complemented by Uranus'independence and originality. Her life is out-of-the-ordinary, with lots of changes and agreat knowledge of the world not through reading but through personal experience that is quite a boost, that you starts! Mercury in Capricorn Notices (almost) everything sometimes Opposition Mercury Ascendant In your close relationships, your partner serves as a mirror, reflecting your thoughts and ideas back to you from a different perspective You may choose partners who are considerably younger than you, or who are not as academically smart as you Working around mirroring and self image up-down relationships right now! In fact here is another self portrait of me and / in the sky: Growing sideways, trying to catch up, expand, go past stuff and stiffness, learn the rules to break with rules. I could have grown up in full bloom but I actually could not. My family context was very limited, although quite 'secure', and in my teenage years and twenties and did what I had learnt to do: be strong. Manage with yourself and make a proper life that will ease trouble. Make your Mum and Dad proud for that matter, as that seemed to matter a lot more than a lot indeed. I had to be understood by my family. I had to understand and support them. Not much fun in the end. I started to break some rules and get lost. I even broke a knee for levity I had not learnt the rules to break them for the best. I underwent a whole doctoral study trying to be super-human. In effect I was trying to free myself from personal and social conditioning without understanding much of it at all. Yet it worked a little bit, some dirt was contacted, some release, some new words to play with. So far, structural holes theory is cool. I love the way it is possible to play with art forms more in research I had given it a go myself but I now see I can do so much more with it. And i don't have to make it overly complicated in its logistics, I will simplify that a lot, explore working on a minimal methodology where I don't get trapped in overdoing and just stay with processing. Processing is key. LOVE

What part of you do these words touch? Where do they land? What blockages are they signalling? What encounters are they enabling? What action might your words galvanise? What dialogue can we have? soft arms like empty sleevesmidland between childhood and adulthoodstuck circuitry flow is blocked over thinking stuck in the midland forgotten childhood pleasureREVIVING FELT MEMORIES OF PASTjust telling just doingI'll just tell you about Petzi the BearImmersion in PAST stories… Petzi is an adventurous young Bear. He goes out at sea with his Mary boat. Mary is painted in red. There's wine and wind in the hold for parties. And lots flying fishes for lunch. Peacocks Tape record Thick silence Country house Forgetfullness of myself All in the space Chiaccheri chiacchieri, non sai far altro dice Laverdure. Short Break. She bear speaks now. What's next?

Alice! Cliff Still entusiasm is infectious! I loved the knitted hat. Today I imagined yourself as a Hummingbird. What is my Lift? A sense of humour. Seeing things otherwise and absurd sometimes. For example, I am not that much of an intellectual, but I try to think, OK maybe I tend to try too hard and pretend I understand when I don’t and only then admit I did not understand. Psychoanalysts speak about human passion for ignorance (Lacan) or fear of not getting it (Phillips) and so I contribute with questions / observations (usually these are very appreciated and do make a difference!). Adam Phillips, author of Missing out: In praise of the unlived life. Macmillan, 2013So to cut the story short today I’ve found I can express this ambivalence by wearing the studious glasses. Openly faking it! Maybe we all fake it a lot of the time? What is my Drag? Wanting to be perfect (of course). A tendency to feel I am not adequate to whatever and all the world is much more fit. So I get stuck and spinning on myself. In fact I stop doing the things and hide behind lots of complications. Or run after stupid men who are just complicated by themselves. To which wonderful Raffaella Carrà had long ago found a perfect answer. What is my Thrust? Curiosity, I always want to walk behind that last bend of the road, just one more, then I’ll get backThis is literally about walking but metaphorically too about where I stand in my life. Can I walk another bit? Here I (left second raw) got on a bus with 80 Cambodians of the Women's Media Center for Cambodia NGO, on their annual leave to the highest mountain in the country. There was a fog so thick we were locked in the hotel, an expensive casino, with ice-cold aircon. All crazy. Cambodians are wonderfully surprising people. What Grounds me? Trees. Nature. Yoga. Movement. How do me keep afloat or in flight? I have a capacity to regenerate. It can take me a looooong time. It may seem hopeless. But something is happening. This is one of my plants that I almost killed with too much water, but the I took great care, and she’s back. Great artworks keep me in flight. Memorable books, films (this is such a great film highly recommended), and artists (just saw the Keith Haring exhibition in Milano! Friendships are important and I should give them more space / trust. What propels me forward? Your huge heart? possibly (i would like to think so. strength? determination? honesty? passion? naivety?). Your memory of where to find nourishment? maybe my memory of where there is no nourishment, and the memory of where the nourishment is (even if I am not always able to get to it as get dragged down). Your ability to adapt? surely. Your ability to change direction and focus on what resources you have within you? yes. Your ability to drop excess baggage? learning to do so recently… dropping what is not a resource is such a difficult thing to do! Pleasure propels me forward. Like wishing to live better and trusting when it feels good, so there’s lots of flowers I still have to find, Hummingbird! Want to find! Mmm yummy!

Who will you invite and how will you invite them? I invited a friend I had seen for years, Irene. Irene was class mate in the MA in Human Resources, but I actually knew her before since we got to have friends in common. She got together an ex boyfriend of mine, one of my first dates really. There was a big group of young men with their fiancés (not very feminist). I texted Irene about a garden party in our borough (although living not that far we never come across each other). We met there and had a lovely chat. I then texted her to invite her for dinner with Davide and their 2 year son. What ingredients will you choose? Vegetables. Where will you buy them from? Street market. How will you prepare them? What do you want to gift to your guest? Where will you eat? In my kitchen. What will you wear? A dress. What would you like to receive? White wine. What anxieties to you have about how they might receive you? What risks can you take? What is the worse thing that could happen? What is the BEST? How can you make this a truly transformational encounter? The project is in progress. People in Milan are terribly busy. It has always been like that. You never manage to see someone with less than 2 weeks notice. (to be continued)

I never touch… past relationships. I like to touch… people arms during friendly conversation which is a problem out of Italy. I am completely in touch with… sleep cycle. I have felt touched by… hospitality. I wish I had touched… my grandfathers more often. I like being touched on… my neck. I swear I never touched… a stranger's low parts in a warehouse party. I left a mark on… more than I think I have. I am touched every time… I perceive beauty simplicity not simplification. I like to touch base by… calling up / sending out. I like to touch base with… friends close and far. The past touches me like… the ground under my bare feet. How much am I in touch with me? You? I don't know Alice, you seem to be :-) I also seem to be in touch with me more fluidly lately. Can I see your hands? Reflexive hand. Hand in friends' books. Breakfast hand. Naughty hand. Hands reading PhD greeting card. Two hands mirroring.

I really enjoyed the article about social capital and structural holes, please let me share some notes. 1) holes means that information is not redundant between groups, that means that people on either side of a structural hole circulate in different flows of information (yes! great image very clear)2) brokering the holes (bridging between holes) has the advantage of giving privileged access to information (opinion leaders spreading ideas and behaviors), and social control by having a say in decisions taken by people in the groups. 3) identities and beliefs can be brokered (lovely). 4) it is advantageous to have networks with holes. Entrepreneurs are people skilled in building the interpersonal bridges that span structural holes. Remember my mother's blanket with holes? NOT COVERING THE HOLES! Illusion of filling the blanks. I had the idea that my mother (without knowing it) was actually speaking about her discomfort with structural holes, and not about holes in her knowledge.? New line of interpretation for my thesis. Gosh. Research never ends. This confirms my feeling that life is more satisfying when doing different things with different people there's more freedom and diversity in one live; there's an issue with keeping track with the social map which is a complex moveable map; there's some loneliness too as connections are fluid and intermittent. It becomes isolating if you have a difficulty with the frustration of fluid and intermittent relationships and do not flow in between the holes often enough. This social isolation may bring with it both lower social capital (lack of good opportunities) and cultural capital (it is more difficult to connect ideas). All this to say: great prompt! How is my blanket? I have tried to draw my map of academic relationships but it will need more work. It can be of great help to visualize moveable relational network. In my drawing the dynamic is not there yet, it looks static. Also missing 'potentials' between groups. And non academic people? For now that's a starting point! LOVE

Without realising it I actually collected material for this prompt. I had not spoken to my mother for a while. Not a huge while but I had not been ‘really' speaking with her for a while. In fact I had been avoiding to engage in conversation on the phone and had discharged her attempts to invite me to places / invite herself to my place. I shall remind you that my mother lives in Tuscany and I live in Milan. When I decided to call her she had just come back form a weekend in Naples with friends and had taken a test of Japanese language, which she has been studying this year for the first time. I was a bit nervous a I knew I had kept her away and she had sensed that obviously, and as now offended as I could guess from her texts. Calling her on Monday 5th June at 8pm. GDN: Hi Mum. How was your exam today? and How was Naples? M: Exam went quite well, not so difficult. Naples was great. (pause) I am glad you ask but I was hurt by the way you traded me recently and that answer the other day about June and I don’t deserve that. GDN: Yes you are right. Could you tell me how I hurt you the other day? M: You treated me like another appointment which did not fit in your agenda. GDN: You are right. I am really busy at the end of the month, with Edinburgh and writing those articles, but you are right and I could have told you more carefully. I did not mean that. Fact is, I don’t know what to do. I need some space for myself and don’t like when you call me at any time of the day as if I were always available. I am working although unpaid. I feel like the eternal daughter, the little one, forever student and daughter. You know it is a difficult transitional time after the PhD… still working on corrections actually, never good enough. M: I undestand that. GDN: It is also very exciting and I like what I am doing but I feel under pressure. I was happy to celebrate my viva with you and friends in Tuscany and you organised such a lovely party and I am thank you for that. And the card you’ve made. M: I thought there was something wrong with that and you did no like the card. GDN: Well no it is so beautiful and I like it very much. Thank you. I opened it up again yesterday on the floor, it is great. I felt uncomfortable when you gave it to me during the party though. We all read it and it passed from hand to hand [a collage card 4 metres long], and it felt like, don’t get me wrong, but I felt like you were the show and I could to even talk about my research… I mean I just mumbled something. I don’t feel adequate. M: I wanted to celebrate you in public, darling. I asked to my friends if a card was a good idea, I was ensure how to celebrate you the best I could. I wanted to tell everyone how hard you worked for your PhD, your incredible journey. I started to collate something and as I added more to the story the paper was not enough and so I added more and more… until there was no more blue paper! GDN: Ah ah really? (relieved) It is a great card and I like it very much Mum. M: I am happy you do, thank you. GDN: It was difficult for me to read that story. I don’t feel it is true. I did not construct my maps, I did not read all those books, in fact I cannot read, I don’t have a study method, I am not methodical. I have used suggestions from others, I have copied my supervisors thinking at most, Linden, Laura, Wilma. There is very little of my own thoughts in the thesis and that does not have much academic grounds. Now I start a doctorate! M: That is how everyone learns darling. We don’t learn but by imitating others that we like. You chose your mentors carefully because you like them. I don’t remember anything of all the philosophy I studied in my MA. It is the spiral you talked about in your thesis. You spiral around and you learn a bit more each time. G: Ah ah! Yes I was forgetting that. I have talked about these feelings of inadequacy with my therapist. Many feel inadequate to their titles. Many feel inadequate in general. It helps me to talk about it although it is difficult. I am trying to change many things in my life. M: Maybe you are trying too hard. Don’t ask too much of yourself. Look back at all the way you have come through. In 10 years you’ll have walked just as much and you will look back again. You can celebrate that. Sometime I talk to friends and notice that they are struggling with things that I have understood, whilst other things I haven’t of course. G: Ok. I am sorry I treated you badly. I was trying to change some dynamics between us but I was not clear with you. I need some space. I look forward to doing things together this summer. Could you call me in the evening so that I feel I have more of a working life? M: Ok. And if I call you at another time you can say you are busy, I have no problem with that. GDN: You are right! I can just say I am busy and call you at another time. I get this feeling I have to respond even if I don’t feel like it. I worry about you and grandma. M: Let’s not make confusion here. It is two different things. GDN: Yes. Ok. (I think I am confused about ‘my space’ and ‘other's space’ but am working on it). I was trying to change things without saying it and this was confusing, like Dad did sometime. I will speak more openly. It is so much easier. Such a stupid little thing! M: It is not stupid at all! It takes people all their lives to change these things. Your protests whilst hurtful made me to think. I was doing things I was not convinced with and now I understood why. I won’t tell you but it was important, so something good came from it. GDN: Good. M: Good. GND: So we’ll be in touch. When do you have the results of your exam? M: We’ll go through them on Thursday. GDN: You’ll tell me about it. Take care of yourself. M: And you. Analysis: Mmm mum and I responded to your prompt and got our stories out. We went through crisis, uncovered family patterns, and came out with an affective understanding of the problem. Possibly something has changed.

This is my caterpillar with (instructions for use). Start. She names!  portrait. (instruction 1: right side is bottom, please turn)detail: Imaginal disc. (instruction 2: use imaginative look) Story: she finds shoes. Red. (instruction 4: Dance to the blues) Mutation process not visible when not dancing (instruction 4: allow to mutate) Repeat to end.

I invite you today to consider re-imagining your residency within your/a/the mothers deep trasnformational womb space. Her body held you for around 9-months in a state of ‘un-gendered being’… a third space, a place of becoming…

Day 1. Gaia on relationships Response: Attention. Intense application of the senses and the mind on a certain object (Garzanti Italian Dictionary, 2008, my translation) Thank you Alice for this first prompt. What a start! I can see how the words attention, acceptance, appreciation, affection, and allowing go together. They have to do for me with attending to the other, as well as to oneself. Donald Winnicott in Playing and Reality (1971) has written about being 'reflected back' as a condition that characterizes (adult) relationships with these qualities. Being reflected back creates a potential space that allows creative expression of different parts of oneself, thus of a whole personality that coheres and flourishes in the process. Such thoughts have helped me start looking at my own life and relationships. Of course, loving and playing are difficult and conflicted. I have grown up with a father who gave me little of the above as he was (is?) quite blocked and would not easily allow proximity, whilst idealizing our relationship as open and playful. I myself often struggle to balance between accepting and appreciating others and myself allowing us to become I may instead please others or step back. These five A's remind me of yoga practice and trying to feel through the body what happens to us, taking the time to attend to ourselves in the world, as in this accelerated and mediated times we are drawn to perform, while engaging with our lives is a highly uncertain creative process. Bodywork like movement and dance improvisation for me is offering a way to practice those qualities in relationships with self and other through releasing tensions and staying with affective and cognitive crises. In attachment a video I took on 5th May at Cascina Prepranda, in Pontinvrea, near Genova, during a workshop of Placement, Ideokinesis and Creative Process with Ursula Stricker. LOVE Gaia IMG_5677. MOV

Dearest Alice, you didn't go to Jamaica but you went to Sykros Island! Well done you! This makes me think the best could be closer than you think, smaller than you think, less stressful or complicated than you think. And possible! These are my 7 traction points we touched upon during the last weeks that I would like to work more on with you in the next phase: Balancing appreciation (Richo) of myself and others. I am thinking about self protection together with self appreciation of all my efforts, work, explorations, capacities. Not mythologizing others but appreciating them in a more balanced way (a bit more irony about our imperfections)Allowing things to happenFemale jouissance and écriture feminine (Cixous) as a ruote to growing my personal, embodied, Bear Woman's integral voice Not overdoing = not performing to catch up with some external imagined standard / internalized expectation. This is stressful and distracting from deep engagement with selected objects of LOVE. Dispersion of energies and feelings of being inadequate are imbued in performing. Seeing this as both biographical (my fragmentations) and resulting from a neoliberal cultural discourse and structural uncertainty of contemporary Western societiesDigital intimacy being more experimental with the media to nurture my voice and speak through a variety of languages, in different (digital) public spaces. Developing my work into new and more daring and participatory directionsSaying no with peace of mind and strengthSaying yes! going for it, cumulating my cultural and social capital, playing more with the fragments, proposing myself with confidenceLooking forward to connect / touch / tract / play / and the rest 😃 Have a nice dayLOVE I am awake in bed. My bed is painted in red with red bars around it. It is night and it rains. It rains heavily. The sound of the storm woke me up. My bed is in my room and there's a light brown carpet that I see in the dark. I hear loud thunders. I call dad. Dad comes to rescue. He says he will sleep on the carpet so that I can be safe. I fall asleep.

BeforeI had just come home from the street market I like this on Saturdays, sense of community, watching life happen among people. I had already read your prompt and got very intrigued by Wuthering Highs, red colour, your wonderful performance, the mouths. I searched for hidden red in my life. In my home. Secret spots. I listened to Kate Bush Lily. Loved it. (female David Bowie?) More organic forms started to catch my imagination. Found this song by Italian singer Elisa, Soul flies. She is not a favorite of mine, too romantic stuff and not enough Character. No anger!!!!! No Red Woman for sure. But this one is a bit different… I had not liked 6 months ago and now I like more. Note the evocative resonance with both Kate Bush songs and videos! Now I go out. See you later. Walk I went to the parade Milano Senza Muri it We were around 100000 people, colourful, diverse and loud. It was a huge party! I joined the parade at the start in Porta Venezia, watched it walk, watched untile the coda, then joined the walking until we all reached Parco Sempione behind the Sforzesco Castle. I saw I friend from yoga and famous pianist Ludovico Einaudi (very great!) who is shorter than I imagined and walked unnoticed through the flux of people reminding me of how many of artists go unnoticed and make 'us' in everyday life how many artists in us go unnoticed too? An old friend of mine, Lucia, who lives in Sicily walked in in my arms before we both noticed one another! We were slightly uncomfortable having not been in touch for a long time. I met her again in the park and we spent the evening tougher with another journalist friend chatting about 'narrated journalism' and feminist practice to counter power and oppression / depression. We heard La crus (Mauro Ermanno Giovanardi and Cesare Malfatti, such elegant talented musicians) play in a simple unplugged version (voice + guitar) some songs, among those Un garofano nero. Ermanno tapped with his foot on the wooden stage, we were a few bunch of people by that time, so intimate, he touched us with his smooth dense voice, we swung like serpents, black carnations. sono un garofano neroe assomiglio alla linfa che hoprendimi e macchiatiio sono un garofano neroma non brillo al soleio non ti scaldo con le parolema quando la luna rompe l'incantoio sono perso nell'universo che assomiglia alla linfa che hoio sono un garofano neromacchiato dal dono che hoaprimi e confonditiio sono un garofano neronon ho rancoree ridiscendo con un chiarorema quando la luna rompe l'incantoio sono perso nell'universo che assomiglia al vuoto che hoio sono un garofano neromacchiato dal dono che honon ho rancoretu non confonderti con le paroletu non confondermima quando la luna rompe l'incantoio sono perso nell'universo che assomiglia alla linfa che hoThe day seemed never to want to end. The park was still flooded in warm light as we sat at a stall having chips and almond milk. I left Lucia at the train station and walked back home in the night. My city makes me fall in love. In the springtime it opens up like a dark flower revealing all its sensuality. AfterI had some food as soon as I got home. Sloes, ricotta, and yellow taralli from Puglia which I had all bought in the morning at the market. The woman selling them is going down (South) on Monday to do some work in her land which she showed me a picture of. There was a trullo (traditional stone construction) in her land. I've been wearing this ring today since I found it in the small wooden box in the first picture. My parents brought back all these little jewelry from India when they toured the country together before I was born. My mother sent back books that she would not read. My father stayed three months longer and came back starved having finished money. Today I feel that I went with an open heart and some things came to me without my will, just my openness. Things lost were found. Connections took place. I was surprised by the ease and enjoyed the pleasure. As Laurie Anderson simply put it, the most essential is to fall in love I do not know when I became an adult. I think I am becoming one now. It is something that clicked, a need, a feeling, a change in orientation. What's really important? How do I want to be here as long as I can be here? I have thought about death, my own time, the time of humankind, the uncanny feeling of being here without ever knowing, yet with the capacity to ask the question. I have asked myself what may be the different between noise and being. Where meaning lies. Can I unlearn, can I learn again, can I improvise?

would invite Virginia Woolf to have a look at my altar of intimate resources coming out from by green backpack ( a wonderful Ferrino back pack that accompanied me in India, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, and Indonesia) . Virginia is a dear friend. I am sure she knows that. She knows a lot of things this Virginia, in fact she is not so ‘virginal’ at all. She is a woman who meets the world form the inside out and writes about it. Our dialogue would be something around these lines. Scene: Cambridge gardens, 5pm on a Tuesday afternoon in September 2017. The two characters are sitting on the grass and taking tea from a blue porcelain teapot. objects are spread in from of them on a blue shawl. GDN: …and so I put these objects together following a sort of ‘flow’ in my mind, and I still like them. They make some sense together although I cannot say what. The colours speak too, the reds and silvers, and all that blues there in waves. I even found out I had a Great Bear mug ( with a golden constellation from Stoke-on-Trent, that’s what made my buy it you know, Linden’s passion for history and distress in the city) . And you’re there, and (m)others, and that first pig artwork of mine. I dunno what to make of it all. VW: it is or will become a revelation of some order; *GDN: do you think so? VW: it is a token of some real thing behind appearances; and I make it real by putting it into words. *GDN: I know you do. (pause) I think I am trying to. It can be painful to undergo this process though, isn’t it? VW: it is only by putting it into words that I make it whole; this wholeness means that is has lost its power to hurt me; it gives me, perhaps because by doing so I take away the pain, a great delight to put the severed parts together. *GDN: that is so powerful what it happens. I feel a great deal of pleasure right now talking to you. VW: perhaps this is the strongest pleasure known to me. It is the rapture I get when in writing I seem to be discovering what belongs to what. *GDN: yes I get that too. I seem to never know before writing how the frame goes together. Or what is behind the frame, for what matters! VW: have you not read that famous quotation of mine, the ‘behind the cotton wool’ thing? It is so overused in Academia nowadays, like everyone knows what I was talking about. Well, you may have a look at it. But please not take my scribbles too seriously darling, don’t take anyone scribbles too seriously! you need to find your own land, your own words. And not take those too seriously either. GDN: uhm yes OK, thank you Madam. I will check that and keep the rest under check too. It was lovely to take tea with you in Cambridge gardens. Still a bit crowded with young males, but we found our place in the sun. VW: and all these mobile phones and earplugs! The weaves get other meanings in this connectivity time, what ever that means anyway. Enough wisdom for today, I want to walk back to my quiet. Hope you don’t mind. I’ll see you around here soon. Take care of yourself if you can. And she left. I got to the library and found the quotation. Not sure what to do with it but thought I might note it down for future reference:… behind the cotton wool is hidden a pattern; that we I mean all human beings are connected with this; that the whole world is a work of art; that we are parts of the work of art. Hamlet or a Beethoven quartet is the truth about this vast mass that we call the world. But there is no Shakespeare, there is no Beethoven; certainly and emphatically there is no God; we are the words; we are the music; we are the thing itself. (Woolf, 1985, p. 72 *)

Alice, thank you for the beautiful slippery snakes! Is that your son in the picture? He is terribly brave and slightly unusual which is a very good thing. Today I went to therapy and we found some very interesting ideas that help me read what I do and some repetitious cycles I got stuck into. I am amazed at how it works. When I bring my own reflections and findings into that room he responds to what I say. Often even just one word gets me on a new line of thought, POP!, I have a new connection, a further step, a different side. Fruitful traction. It leaves me in wonder about the mind as something really extended between people. The winding road in your video makes me think about something a long winding road ago… The other time I went to therapy I was 12 years old. I had found this woman and had met her for some time. Not much was coming out of it. Until I spent most of a session in silence. I was so angry. I came back the following session with a written note. The studio was small with her sitting behind a desk and me on an armchair. I read the text to the woman. The girl in the text was home one night. Her parents shouting from the kitchen, she hiding under her bed. They moved in the corridor. The main door opened. And then she heard her father say from the doorstep ‘That's right but you manage your daughter now’ Oh Alice I took the invitation of our charming Blue Man (how could I not?) and responded with my Wheel of Life… That’s how it feels! Oh Well —— Oh Wheel! Btw I bought myself an iPad. Maybe that’s sort of the reaction too… 😃

Before Traction Aha! More My family is a safe place and my parents are able to love meSeeing my parents divorce and my father growing distant and revengeful against mother and myselfMy family is an unstable dynamic system of individuals with their struggles I cannot get what people say to me sometime and I feel stupidDiscovering I have hearing impairment in my left ear and cannot hear sounds wellI am not stupid I am just physically different; I have bio-psycho reasons why I prefer the quiet; I can sleep wonderfully on my left ear! Work on / with diversity in work environments I will be with my first boyfriend foreverBreaking up for the first timeI will live different relationships during my lifetimeYou should live your life as it is expected of you to live it even if it does not make much sense to youLeaving for Bombay and a sabbaticalI am brave and can live the life that I want to liveBe reminded of that! My body is unbreakableBreaking my left knee cruciate ligament during a kick boxing class in BombayI need to take care of my own bodyExplore body gently. Learn more about your body structure, functioning and healing. Academic people are of another breedDoing a PhD in the UK and successfully bringing it to completionAcademic work is a kind of work and academic people are people with a passion for that kind of work (and I am one of them)Go for it!

I am in a cautious phase with digitally mediated intimacy. Cautious as neither enthusiastic nor opponent. I would like to learn to position myself at the right distance and at the most satisfying proximity to new media and mediated relationships. I am on Facebook but post or read very little… I find it noisy: there's so much going on at the same time that I get the impression I am missing out on so many conversations, but ironically there's little conversation and a lot of showing off / solipsism. It has a noise effect on myself as I get soaked into scrolling and reading more but with no permanence of what I read no absorbing, to use a word we you and I and participant 14 used before. It is a reactive medium. You like or you fight. I've tried Twitter but am not very good at it yet. Uhm yes I am quite slow with trying technologies, I resist for a long time before realizing I could give it a go and possibly like it… So I do not actively keep in contact with friends through social media neither with an academic community and I am working towards chaining that to be visible on platforms like Academia. edu. I use Whatsapp to message friends and like to add emoticons. I email with colleagues and like it very much for it is clean and storable and gives each other time to process before answering. I don't know what I'll do when I get back to thousands of work emails! Also I've heard that nowadays university students email their professors to ask any sort of thing and most of the time the latter answer. It was not like that in my time (oh gosh!) , and I wonder if we are all regressing into an infantilization of relationships of work and of learning. Writing a digital message can be self protective. Both as scripta manent and so the blaming game sets off, and in relation to your question because there is not the other im-mediately there in her body, look, voice, presence, and our body feeling that. We can say whatever we want. It can be quite a stupid interaction, as it is truncated of its felt sense and felt meaning what we co-create together as meaningful. So on one side I enjoy exchanging written text with people and there's a lot of space for written humour which would not be there otherwise! But then I need to talk as well, face to face if possible, and that cements relationships for me, and evolves them too. With my Participant 8 I exchange emails with links to interesting events, exhibitions, news. We keep a channel open for all intellectual content and have it freed up for our affective relationship. We also know more about one another. Dad instead does not write emails and rarely sends texts so we most of the time speak on the phone. He is a bit of a bear in the mountain, as I told you. Not in a bad sense. He is very emotional. I find pictures taken with the phone and sent via Whatapp an immediate and intimate way to connect. I wrote letters and postcards to lovers and that is special and slightly vintage, and I do that sometimes with friends too. It takes a bit more time and effort and something reaches the other physically and their home, where they live. We visit them. Only when visiting friends's homes we get to know something previously unknown about them and about ourselves and how we can be close together regardless and by reason of our differences… or not. Voilà! thank you for this very engaging exchange which I am enjoying deeply with all the surprise and delight and provocationit brings[[[[[[ ] in my lifeEveryday. LOVE and Happy Catch Up! g

I struggle too with my feminine. I had not worn a skirt for months but did today, thanks to your prompt! same with nail polish which I've never learnt to do properly and refuse to pay for. I should signal some synchronicity as I thought about my dresses and skirts just yesterday before reading prompt n. 6! Maybe you will find this interesting… I usually wear jeans. Love them. So practical! The thing is I have the feeling of overdoing when being more feminine. When I was a teenager I did more of that and I do in the summer months summer makes me more feminine. That's because I don't care in the summer. In the winter I don't care in another way: I am not bothered. I like being comfortable with myself. There's a part of me who does not want to invest on looks as there's always something more interesting to think about. Yet I naturally like nice things. I wonder wether I could not care like in the summer in the winter also wear whatever I grab hands on even if I look eye-catching. Questions of the feminine or of the feminist? I read Jessica Valenti's book, Sex object, and found resonance in her ambivalence with getting attention (from men) and being used for lack of a sense of self protection. The feminine is a potent voice in me that asks to be given more space. It scares me. Will I be strong enough to honor it? What will it eradicate in my world? So I make a little more space every day, say no to someone, meet feelings of frustration, go for what gives me the thrills or the peace. I met a men, lover and liar, and we were together for two years. Married with two children always about to divorce. He did not change my life but I got to plunge deeper into what scares me and what thrills me and why and I am chasing both. Well… I hope I am : -)Oh, and my hair is natural now! PEACEToday just for the project! Today feminine time reminder :

Not my son and snakes but… my two sons are terribly brave and unusual… Barney 13 and Henry 10. They have shown such resilience and courage this year as their Dad and I divorced… and they teach me something new everyday! 😃 I think they need medals. I know I do! 😃 They are more like a wise Barn Owl and a cheeky little resourceful Hen. My friends say I’m a Flamingo… Repetitious cycles. Stuckness(See Gestalt Cycle…) … our points of contact and points of deflection and stuckness… Fruitful traction. The mind as something really extended between people… That's right but you manage your daughter now Sitting on the stairs listening. On a doorstep. On a threshold. Poised. Stopped. FrozenHurt. Hiding under her red bed. Oh Gaia! I just love your caterpillar instructions… I’m going to follow then tomorrow morning and report back! 😃 But first this is an image produced by the man who also produced the images of me in Day 15… The Good The Bad The Ugly…

Gaia the hummingbird. Lift – humour – absurd. The fear of not getting it Missing out: In praise of the unlived life. Ambivalence studious glasses openly faking it! (Me too and flowers for you! :) Dragging getting stuck and spinning on myself. I hide behind lots of complications. Or run after stupid men who are just complicated by themselves… Thrust. Curiosity. I always want to walk on to one last bend of the road, just one more… Looks so interesting but I can’t read a thing… The fog was so thick we were locked in the hotel, an expensive casino, with ice-cold air-con. All crazy. Cambodians are wonderfully surprising people. I am grounded by Trees. Nature. Yoga. Movement. I keep afloat and in flight by the capacity to regenerate. It can take me a looooong time. But something is happening. This is one of my plants that I almost killed with too much water, but the I took great care, and she’s back. I should give Friendships more space / trust / water / love / food. This orchid had died but my friend bought it back to life… My HUGE heart. My ability to change direction and focus on what resources I have within me. YES. Pleasure propels me forward. I am going to watch Toni Erdmann and report back! 😃 In the meantime the screensaver from my hone for you! 😃 I have nurtured my trust in myself as aesthetic-critical enquirer.'

I never touch past relationships. Stroking arms whilst talking. (I love that too! J) Sleep cycle. Kindness. ‘Grandfather I wish I had touched you more often’My neck… mmmmTouching a stranger’s ‘low parts’ in a warehouse party. I left a mark on more than I think I have… self recognition, esteem, love… Simple. Beauty. Touches. Complexity. Call up/send outClose/farThe ground underneath my bare feet reaches up… The past touches me. Touching each other one heart to another heart speaking. Reflexive hand. Searching knowledge hand. Eating hand. Naughty hand. Saucy hand. Delicate hands. Purposeful hands. Mirroring hands. A dance…

Gaia I can see your wonderful playful video now via you tube thank you so much… I would like to play in the nest/den/room beneath the red blanket I loved the way you peeped out at the picture at your Mum so wonderful, playful raw and sensual thank you… I couldn’t open the initial one also can you upload that too… WateryWarmSoftenedWobblyHeldMoveableOrganicVoicedShadySuspended (Gaia I am having difficultly currently opening your videos but am trying to resolve it my end and will let you know ASAP). Petzi the Bear. Felt memories of the past. A real collision of images, memories, redness. Red radio. Red boat. Red bed. Red wine. Red past. Hands and feet grasping the ground. Pig like. Pressure.

I notice the beautiful way that your hand has coloured touched and imprinted the page. I notice the colours you have chosen and how the zones of your life reach out 'firework like' with no clear boundaries and that the ‘black’ star of your mapping holds these areas together and structurally maps them out. I notice you have beautiful handwriting that loops and allows… That you are creative and charming and in motion… CreativityIntimacyPersonal Growth how wonderful this is so high… FamilyEarning MoneyPhysical ActivityPropertyRecreation-FunFriendsSpiritualityLearning that learning, labour and creativity, fun and physicality are touching ‘6'LabourLove? Where is the love, the love, the love… I wish you growth in intimacy, financial and home security… I welcome your friends and family in closer if that serves you. I have seen your spirit shine! :) 

Resourced from and contributing to an imagined community of travellers in life. ‘Food for Soul’ was reciprocal and co-forming. Inside outside within through and beyond words. Ritualised time is important. So is a cup of tea! 😃… Individual and cultural things intermingle engaging me aesthetically. Curiosity is a source of pleasure. Let us experiment more… Curiouser and curiouser said Alice…

Irene and Gaia. Irene got together an ex-boyfriend of Gaia’s one of her first dates really. There was a big group of young men with their fiancés (not very feminist). I texted her to invite her for dinner with Davide and their 2year son. I will choose vegetables from a street market. We will eat in my kitchen. I will wear a dress. I would like receive white wine. People in Milan are terribly busy. You never manage to see someone with less than 2 weeks notice.

Hidden red… mmmmm – I think I felt this coming in prompt 10 before it appeared here! So VERY nice! :) Organic forms asking for attention quietly… Always a teat to feel through the textures of your responses… shiny hard stones, dark mysterious rose head (?) Umbrella unfolding. Changes in perspective. Beautiful machines… Gaia – I love her video of the arms… Elisa L'Anima Vola (official video 2013) Pina BauschRebecca Horn… So healthy and strange for me to not speak Italian and yet we speak! J I want to be a builder of bridges not walls… We will not give up on the blackmail of fear… He keeps resurfacing for me too… how wonderful! Ludovico Einaudi (very great!) who is shorter than I imagined and walked unnoticed through the flux of people reminding me of how many of artists go unnoticed and make 'us' in everyday life how many artists in us go unnoticed too? YES!!!! And the need for 'narrated journalism' and feminist practice to counter power and oppression / depression. ‘We swung like serpents, black carnations.’ I LOVE this image… so strong. Female. Powerful. Untamed. James. James Bond. Unlike his heroines. My city makes me fall in love. In the springtime it opens up like a dark flower revealing all its sensuality. Today I feel that I went with an open heart and some things came to me without my will, just my openness. Things lost were found. Connections took place. I was surprised by the ease and enjoyed the pleasure. I do not know when I became an adult. I think I am becoming one now. Gaia – my post today was about this very thing… becoming an adult – I think I am becoming one too at last now… my ‘butterfly card’ last night said this… This is it on my ‘red’ alter it is for us. For you too! And dear Frida, Frida Kahlo…

Summer makes me more feminine… This is a beautiful passage… The feminine is a potent voice in me that asks to be given more space. It scares me. Will I be strong enough to honor it? What will it eradicate in my world? So I make a little more space every day, say no to someone, meet feelings of frustration, go for what gives me the thrills or the peace. More resonances here Gaia: I met a man, lover and liar, and we were together for two years. Married with two children always about to divorce. He did not change my life but I got to plunge deeper into what scares me and what thrills me and why and I am chasing both. Well… I hope I am : -) And wonderful photos of change. Here are some funny feet for you – mine painted and bruised – maybe like our shared thrill and fear of plunging deeper I but being scared of what failing or falling my bring… ‘Will I be strong enough to honor it? What will it eradicate in my world?’ Will we fly? How are your nails holding out…

I am glad I didn’t go to Jamaica too – I was meant to stay in a ‘treehouse' but in ‘Bloody Bay’ – a near miss I think – Pain and Passion… Thank you… I think I’m learning this too… ’This makes me think the best could be closer than you think, smaller than you think, less stressful or complicated than you think. And possible! 1. Balancing appreciation Not mythologising others but appreciating them in a more balanced way (a bit more irony about our imperfections)2. Allowing… 3. Female jouissance and écriture feminine (Cixous) as a route to growing my personal, embodied, Bear Woman's integral voice third space choosing 4. Not overdoing = not performing to catch up with some external imagined standard / internalized expectation. This is stressful and distracting from deep engagement with selected objects of LOVE. Dispersion of energies and feelings of being inadequate are imbued in performing. Seeing this as both biographical (my fragmentations) and resulting from a neoliberal cultural discourse and structural uncertainty of contemporary Western societies. YES I get this and struggle with this too! :) 5. Digital intimacy being more experimental with the media to nurture my voice and speak through a variety of languages, in different (digital) public spaces. Developing my work into new and more daring and participatory directions – let us do this together in the next Phases I’m sure that they are to come! 😃… 6. Saying no with peace of mind and strength7. Saying yes! going for it, cumulating my cultural and social capital, playing more with the fragments, proposing myself with confidence Kintsugi (or kintsukuroi) is a Japanese method for repairing broken ceramics with a special lacquer mixed with gold, silver, or platinum. The philosophy behind the technique is to recognize the history of the object and to visibly incorporate the repair into the new piece instead of disguising it. The process usually results in something more beautiful than the original.

I had not spoken to my mother for a while. I had kept her away and she had sensed that. I could guess from her texts she was offended. Wow. Powerful and resonant. Analysis: You both definitely talked about ’things’ big ingrained ‘things'. You set your boundaries. Found your voice. Tested your ground. Spoke your truth. Made your space. Your mother responded. She heard you and held you and understood. Amazingly Powerful. Clear and Alert. Thank you so much for sharing your conversation with your mother your transformational conversation has touched and changed things in me too. You give me permission back. I have spoken to my mother. I drew her firmly close maintaining my space. I could tell from her responses she -we had grown. X

Gaia – yes I think you are right… I think it Participant’s 8’s (Mum) way of ‘apologising?’ You are very perceptive too! 😃 Yes I feel we are mutually entering some dance of ‘risk’ renegotiating our ‘structural coupling’, our ‘dance of interacting parts’ as you rightly position it – it’s a but scary! The 4 year old child inside my 43 year old body is a bit frightened to risk being ‘held’ risk being ‘abandoned… ’dropped’… ’over looked’… Yes – I think we are starting to ‘both rebirthing our relationship of mother-daughter’ – thank you for witnessing this so tenderly and reflecting it back to be so clearly. J I KNOW we WILL get to have a beer soon! :) When I asked my mother about an image that she associated with knowing, she said 'a blanket with holes in it'… We spoke more about the image of the blanket, and I suggested that a blanket also keeps you warm. This insight… helped us see something already present inside this metaphor: a self-healing, creative (a hand made blanket), and sensuous relationship to knowing. (p. 62-63) I love this thank you – I feel warm and seen and nurtured and safe within your blanket of LOVE but still able to peep out… no suffocation here! Thank you… :) No smother mother… Breathe. Holding and Space to feel… I need to get hold of my Mums old ‘patchwork blanket..’ Thank you for rewriting me…

Day 1: Being reflected back. Winnicott. Creating a space of potential. Loving and playing as difficult and conflicted. Yoga practice. Feeling through the body. (Need to watch video)Day 2: Objects. Personal association. Resonance. Value. ‘Make my home alive’. Growth. Bringing home like birds… Relaxing. Clearing. Collecting. Furniture. Reading in bed. Opening and closing. Redesign. Inheriting by transforming. Brooding. Potential. Birthing. Flight. Song. Bird song. Metaphors of knowledge. Synchronicity. Collections. Powerful imagery.

You like or you fight. Digital Intimacy. I love this expression Gaia so much so I hope you came across me referencing it to others as part of Group Feedback on 16/05/17. Cautious. Curious. Balance between at a threshold of: neither enthusiasm or opposition… ’the fence and tipping point… Participant 10 referred to ‘it’ ‘Facebook’ as Nosebook – how apt… for us digital ‘lurkers…’ ‘Noise’ this has resonance with Participants 6 & 7… I like to add emoticons. I wonder if we are all regressing into an infantilisation of relationships of work and of learning – Prof to student and back – surrogate relationships of intimacy…? Written humour. Short sharp sweet but… I need to talk as well, face to face if possible, and that cements relationships for me, and evolves them too. With my Participant 8 I exchange emails with links to interesting events, exhibitions, news. We keep a channel open for all intellectual content and have it freed up for our affective relationship. We also know more about one another. Interesting – I would like to know more! Dad – a bear in the mountain. Not in a bad sense. He is very emotional. Whatapp immediate and intimate way to connect with pictures… Only when visiting friends's homes we get to know something previously unknown about them and about ourselves and how we can be close together regardless and by reason of our differences… or not. Yes! And I think this too will become part of the research… I love the way you frame and end your responses in different ways and forms on the page! Thank YOU!

My Altar of Intimate Resources. My feet feature a lot. My holey orange womb blanket. My other (m) others long long card… My m-other reborn on a book. Virginia Woolf is a Woman. She meets the world from the 'inside out’. And so Grand(m)other Woolf meets Little Red Riding Hood. It is only by putting it into words that I make it whole; this wholeness means that is has lost its power to hurt me; a great delight to put the severed parts together. You need to find your own land, your own words. And not take those too seriously either. …behind the cotton wool is hidden a pattern; that we I mean all human beings are connected with this; that the whole world is a work of art; that we are parts of the work of art. Hamlet or a Beethoven quartet is the truth about this vast mass that we call the world. But there is no Shakespeare, there is no Beethoven; certainly and emphatically there is no God; we are the words; we are the music; we are the thing itself. (Woolf, 1985, p. 72 *)… Deep Red. Floor Carpet. Sleep. This reminds me of your womb film too takes me inside…