Goodbye House. Goodbye. When I started the project I toyed with the idea of calling it ‘Trouble, Traction, Transform’ but I settled on ‘Touch, Traction, Transform’ because ‘Touch' can come in many forms light and dark, heavy and tender… trouble or joy… So tomorrow, Tuesday 23rd, I would like you to list the main moments of ‘Traction’ in your life so far, not just ‘Memories' but actual ’Turning Points’, ‘Aha’ moments… at the threshold between what was and then what is. You may then want to fill in the additional column on 'choice points, insight into action, transit, transform. I describe one of mine at the very end of this page. A few of my ‘Traction’ points would be: BeforeTractionAha ‘Moment’What next? Choice points, insight into action, transit, transformation… My parents are safe. Falling off a door top and breaking my ankle in the night on the eve of my 4th Birthday. I remember it dragging along behind me as I went into Mum and Dad’s room but they didn’t believe me until the morning. Mum and Dad won’t always believe me. People are kind. A girl at nursery deliberately knocking my red and green carefully painted plaster of Paris ‘Alice in Wonderland’ chess pieces to the floor and them smashing. Not everyone is kind. I am scared and not able. Leaping off a huge rock three times bigger than me at my Grandparents house in Devon. I am brave and I am able. I need to stay close to the house. Finding a wild cats nest. I can explore. I am not a boy or a girl I am me. Refusing to play with Ian and Alan after Ian told me he loved me when I was only 7. I am a girl. I am unique, adored and special. The birth of my three sisters. I am not unique. I have to share. Adults can always protect me. Getting stuck in a ‘eddy’ whirlwind in a burnt cornfield with my Grandpa ‘Umpa. Grown ups can’t always protect me. I can have anything I want. Being told this was the only shop I could get school shoes from. I can’t have everything I want. Being a good girlHiding my wellie boots in the bushes at the bus stop before school and putting on my Granny’s heeled pixie boots instead. Being a rebel. Sex is bad. Making love to my first boyfriend against my bedroom wall. Sex is good. Be careful. London is full of strangers. Moving from a village in Leicestershire to New Cross in London. Meeting my best friend Sophie and each being given a pink carnation by a stranger as we held each other and cried in Blackheath church homesick and troubled. Strangers can be kind even in London. The world is a dangerous place. Travelling across America on my own at 19years old and ending up in Yosemite park with a German and American and a Bear. I can trust my own instincts and keep myself safe. I am not ‘healed’ enough to be a mother. The birth of my son Barney. I am a ‘good enough’ mother. I cannot possibly love another child like I love my first. The birth of my son Henry. Love is expansive and has no boundaries. I am lost. Sitting on the floor and re-discovering all my sketchbooks and writings from art school and realising that the things I am searching for now, I already worked out or known. ‘The forgotten known’. I am found. Life is unfair. Travelling to Australia to hold my sister and her stillborn daughter Susie my niece. There must be something to learn from each experience however painful. I can get married because my head tells me too. My wedding in New York. A marriage that is not from the heart is not a marriage. You have to stick a marriage out for the sake of the children and everyone else even if you are unhappy inside. I am unimportant. My divorce in Nottingham Crown Court. You can choose to change things however painful and become Happier. I matter. When I went on a long walk last weekend I took lots of photos of bridges, crossings, stiles, and a ford… IMG_2664. movAnd a lot of my ‘transition points’ are also marked by house moves… 'Today I looked over the gate of my ‘old’ family ‘house'. It is set to go on the housing market this week and represents the end of my marriage and the culmination of my divorce. The ultimate social status and achievement of ‘five bedroom quintessential thatched cottage in the heart of Rutland’ has dissolved. Since my divorce, good friends of mine recently said to me that when they first saw this house 3-years ago, they thought, ‘Oh no, Alice and Alex have bought another massive and stressful project to ‘hold’ themselves together’. She couldn't have been more right. In this ‘aha’ moment I allowed myself to ‘admit’ I was living a lie, a false construct that no longer fed my ‘heart’. With a project to focus on the ‘outside’ we didn’t need to look at ‘us’ ‘inside’. With this painful insight I made the choice point to leave, turning insight into action and transit, transform. I now live in a smaller rental property in a market town nearby. But it ‘feels’ like my home. After 18 years of ‘relationship’ I at last had the insight and courage to liberate myself from my self made false constructs of ‘success’ ‘social', ‘relational', ‘economic’ status and fear. I now feel so ‘much' inner freedom and happiness with so much ‘less’. I am starting to experience what it feels like to be really ‘fulfilled’ inside rather than ‘successful’ seen outside. Inside ‘noticings'. Outside ‘trappings'. Freedom, flight, transformation. I have learnt to ‘give my feelings ‘form’ and not ‘form’ to my feelings… I look forward to hearing about your ‘aha’ moments… all gates can be opened. All prison doors have keys… Day 1. (Prompt & Response) Transformational Encounters. Touch. Most people think of love as a feeling,  says Dr. David Richo, but love is not so much a feeling as a way of being present. Day 2: Individual noticings. Day 2. Stephie and boys fun vids.

Today I met you all in your stories and as I read through them, certain parts leapt out and grabbed me, and I have pasted them below clashing, colliding and encountering each. Word. Form. Person. Image. Story. I invite you today to steal some of these words and images and make them your own. Like a magpie… pick out the 'shiny things' that resonate for you… cultivate them, dialogue with them… make them your own… change their shape, colour tone, hue… I want you to take them back into your nest and add to them, reimagine them, rearrange them like ‘furniture'. Place them where you would like them to be. Sit or lay in one of the objects, look down at a view from on high and tell us what you see sea? Breathe in the air what can you smell. Taste the food. What music is playing? What conversations and sounds to you hear? You have never as yet encountered one another except for my loose ‘introductions and mentionings’ in 'group noticings’ so I invite you to meet here in this virtual space and write into the imagined spaces of each others stories expand and contract the in-between: 'rewriting you only meansthat the spaces I'm not writing in are where I live. ’(Mimi Khalvalti, Apology quoted in Day 5) What ‘traction’ points lie between the words below for you? What might your ‘noticing' and 'playfulness' return to the original author? This is your ‘Us’ story: I am 8 years old. Peacocks preen and fight, cars crash outside, a girl and a boy balance on the parapets. A note book lies on Grandfathers sheep skin rug, my toes peeping out of my sandals look as if they have been made out of snow-flakes and drops of sweet evaporated milk. A turntable with an integrated tape deck plays notes through a building with holes for windows, eyes, our first kiss, your tongue thrusting as the florescent light flickers overhead. Stray dogs, skinny and boney, a dead coconut leaf and over there, through the tree, and beyond the swing, I can see the yellow corn. My bed is painted in red with red bars around it. We painted and glued it there. Sometimes that's all any of us need big Bear. Hardly a day passes when I don't think of you. Journeying with the raindrops down the glass, being inside the raindrop perhaps. Talking about the 'strange sound world' that us hard of hearing people inhabit and then acid trip. I went round Times Square, full of hard core 'girlie' mags and film booths with men in dark glasses on high stools behind counters. I was drawn to it, but at the same time I was sick. Red Wellies. Rain Mac. Pompoms and finger-knitting were favourites of mine. The owner of the cafe sexually assaulted me and I didn't tell anybody. Like a dog without a bone. You could just listen, but don't make any judgements. Could you give me a hug, please? Of course. They stand and hold each other for a moment. THINK TRACTION: What part of you do these words touch? Where do they land? What blockages are they signalling? What encounters are they enabling? What action might your words galvanise? What dialogue can we have? And now in any way you wish… images, words, film, sounds… re-write your ‘We’ story out from your bodily responses and places trying feelings first and to not lead with your mind… to know is to feel even if to feel is not yet to know… So. The toes stand out to me snowflakes innocent and pure and sweet, evaporated milk a childlike temptation… Also the items suggest the 70s or even earlier …? 50s-60s? Sheepskin rug, evaporated milk, turntable… Strong sense of place in this. The first line is true for me now, but make that 'hardly an hour'… In time it will fade to 'hardly a day' then 'hardly a week' then 'hardly a month' then 'hardly a year' and maybe then I will have peace… The raindrops. Yes. I know this feeling of being outside oneself suddenly becoming a microcosmSometimes tiny I am a bee supping on ceanothus Sometimes infinite I am the skySometimes travelling through time I am that starSometimes vertiginous I am falling through space Sometimes lost in someone I have left my body and become yours I am the raindrop and the glass. This reminds me of Virginia Woolf and the way she describes the fluidity of boundaries between oneself and others, and objects, and nature. SINCE OUR APPARITIONS, THE PART OF US WHICH APPEARS, ARE SO MOMENTARY COMPARED WITH THE OTHER, THE UNSEEN PART OF US, WHICH SPREADS WIDE, THE UNSEEN MIGHT SURVIVE, BE RECOVERED SOMEHOW ATTACHED TO THIS PERSON OR THAT, OR EVEN HAUNTING CERTAIN PLACES, AFTER DEATH. PERHAPS – PERHAPS. I have this quotation on my 'Blogger, interrupted… ' blog as my header and it expresses for me that fluidity of boundaries, of seen and unseen, shared and hidden, even after death. Possibilities. Perhaps perhaps. What stands out here… The red bed with red bars and the sexual assault never reported. The red reminds me of Margaret Atwood's 'The Handmaid's Tale' .. And Lady Macbeth… Women's blood on their hands, on the bars… How we are imprisoned by our femininity, our sexuality, how our menstrual blood and cycle can define and entrap us.. The red bars on the red bed. I see a girl cycling away fast on a shiny red bike, streamers flying in the wind. I see a girl dancing in a red dress, free from the male gaze. I see a fleck of virginal blood on a sheet. I see red stain on white knickers, the monthly surprise. The blood as the loss… And the gain. The red fleck on the egg as you break it into the frying pan. The secret kept inside our fragile shells don't tell anyone.. But one day someone will break the shell, even ever so gently, and they will see the fleck of blood. Will you be ashamed? Or relieved? Do you want to tell? Or keep your secrets?

Traction/Momentum Slippage/OverwhelmJust before we started our 21-Day Journey Participant 11 said: a) I noticed that you spoke in the form about engaging 10 people in the process, while in the text of your email you say you've engaged 20. How did you change your mind, and do you think you will be able to keep up with daily correspondence with a doubled number of participants? (She is wise and clearly practiced in these matters… ;) I replied: Good question it is wonderful and very time-consuming… But I think as part of my method and process as the project progresses and the work unfolds that participants will emerge/make themselves know… resulting in around 10 by the start of Phase 2… However and this is wonderful you are all beautifully contributing some in fits and starts some with utter force variations most often due to life circumstances and time…! So in a sense I feel I am trying to hold a handful of beautiful slippery snakes! Because I want to give to each of you fully and receive you fully… it is taking more time than I could have predicted to get back to you all with all my different ’noticings' please don’t be discouraged and bear with me and keep going yourselves… I am HERE even if you can’t see me! :) As Participant 12 said in her response to Day 5: 'You [Alice] are artistically 'mother' here. You started this thing after all and we participants assist in the gestation of the project. It is a fascinating journey into the unknown. In a sense I follow your lead but I also see my role as co creator.’ and as the ‘mother’ hen of this project I said to Participant 12: 'I feel so touched by your words – they are validating… in a way I realise I feel like a mother needing to get back to my nest of hungry birds and wondering if I am a ‘good enough’ mother… have I let anyone down… did I get back to the nest too late… are some gobbling up the nutrients and getting fatter faster and have I overlooked some quieter less visible ones who need of more nurturing and encouragement’So I’m in anxiety feeling neglectful of some of you who are steaming away with huge powerful ‘traction' but who may now feel neglected as I attend to other more intermittent members of the group and so in all aspects all of us are at risk of losing contact and momentum… lets hang in here! I know inevitably at some point some of you may pull apart as the 'traction breaks’ but I encourage us to each keep trying to engage together in mutual contribution/commitment to our growing relationship… like this image from Participant 12 together we can co-create this space 'in-between’ us but not on our own! :) So finally for those that have done Day 8… here is an extension activity for you… Point Forty Participant 1. mov'Please watch the film above from my last piece ‘Point Forty’ use it as a way of getting into an embodied state before continuing with a piece of ‘What happened’ writing which can either follow on from today's story or be the start a new life narrative from a different time. The film above is a good illustration of how a point of ‘traction’ can facilitate insight what do you think… what do you feel when you watch it and where do you feel these responses/emotions/sensations in your body? And for those that haven’t manage to catch up yet I encourage you to do so if only with 'a few words' and we can expand upon your notes again in time… Many thanks for your patience and your relationship! Alice :) Trying on a dress over a dress can a tiger change her stripes? trying on different layers… Clingy tube dress under structured prom dress 90s underneath / 50s on top what is beneath the mother & wife structure of the 50s prom dress so shiny like hair ribbons? The body-clinging tube which covers everything yet reveals the womanly shape… Hiding but flaunting? Publicly. People giving blood in Manchester… Giving from the heart which actually replenishes us by our giving, like the platelets of our blood replacing what's lost. A beautiful dream

So as I draw 7 days of ‘Traction' to a close I am leaving you with several prompts and group ‘noticing’s’, (and more individual ‘noticing's will also filter through over the next few days), and I ask you to navigate and respond to that which is most useful to you with a view to identifying 7 main areas/actions/steps in your life, however big or small, that you might like to work on ‘transforming’ further in ‘Transformation’. Areas to Transform: 1… 2… 3… 4… 5… 6… 7… Our Group Traction Summaries: 1) Participant 5 said: 'Sometimes this week I have felt a bit like you are reading my mind!! ’… others of you have said much the same… but I really think that it is ‘our’ co-related space that creates a ‘reciprocal’ synergy, potential and place for exchange. I ‘feel’ you too because I am listening with the whole of me… and I have a plan… I notice your responses… I re-evaluate my plan… I adapt… I exchange… I respond… I meet you and together we build something bigger, better, other… So Artistic Practice-Based Research can create a 'Hopeful Space’. 'Artistic practice-based research is a process that is, ‘dynamic, cyclical and emergent in character [requiring] artists to reflect on, develop and refine their… methods throughout the whole cycle of the project’. (Richards and Sullivan 2005 in Candy and Edmonds 2011, p. 190)2) I also wanted to share this with you from Participant 8 who played like a Magpie with our story: One for sorrowhardly a day passes when I don't think of youTwo for joythey stand and hold each other for a moment Three for a girlRed wellies. Rain Mac. Pom poms. Finger knitting. Four for a boya boy and a girl on a parapetFive for silverbeing inside a rain dropSix for goldI can see yellow cornSeven for a secret never to be toldthe owner of the cafe abused meEight for a wish you could just listen but not make any judgements Nine for a kiss our first kiss, your tongue thrusting Ten for a surprise you must not misstoes like snowflakes and drops of evaporated milk Eleven for health I was drawn to it but at the same time I was sickT welve for wealthmen in dark glasses on high stools behind counters Thirteen beware its the devil himself 3) I think her last line was for meant me (or rather I intensified with it as a point of 'Traction’ and it prompted me to share with you one of my most vulnerable 'Traction to Transformation’ moments but one I don’t regret because as Prof Stephen Joseph, 'In What doesn’t Kill Us’, (2011,) says after trauma we can THRIVE: 1) Take Stock2) Harvest Hope3) Re-author4) Identify Change5) Value Change6) Express Change in ActionAnd this is what I did: The first ‘Stress Trauma’ took place between Aug 1st 23. 00 – August 2nd 3am Gatwick Airport. (I didn’t fly to Jamaica). The second ’Transformational Growth' took place between August 5th 13. 00 – August 22nd 2am Sykros Island. 5 days later. (I did fly to Greece) This was a ‘Transformational Encounter’. We can choose to how to change and grow. Throughout the previous two years of my Ph. D. research I have worked with all kinds of ‘mobius strips and worlds’ to try and work out where the touch, traction and transformation points are, where I, you, the artwork, audiences enter, exit and move within the work. These existing models are also useful: And this is an ‘art' model of my mobius in action: This is an image of my son ‘falling from the sky’ while the artist mother looks up at the plane he fell from as she simultaneously pilots the plane looking down into her garden from the sky as she stretches out her hand feeling the toy polystyrene plane resting on the grass waiting to take off. It was generated by the artist but packaged by a participant from her last piece ‘Situating the Reciprocal’ and returned to the artist. It is also the mobius strip at work… Another example of looking at Ways of doing it… Way of thinking about it.. And to go back to the start of this post to Participant 5, she went on to stay about technology: If we look at the linguistic origins of the term… cyborgian space, i. e. a space which is extended (functionally, dimensionally, aesthetically) by the intervention of technology. In this sense, it can be imagined as a space we can actually inhabit on a day-to-day basis, albeit a space which somehow amplifies our ‘normal’ way of being… We are cyborgs and that is wonderful. ’Which leads to and leaves us with Bjork and her album/app ‘Biophilia’. This is available as an ‘app’ download but here are some useful You Tube clips which lead us back to both our planetary charts of yesterday Day 14 prompt. In the song/section below ‘cosmogony’ we can journey outward where will it lead you? Bjork Biophilia: Cosmogony External journey. In the song/section below ‘Hollow’ we can journey inward where will it lead you? Bjork Biophilia: Hollow DNA Internal JourneyFinally: I remember a day when pregnant with my first child inside my womb that I read an article that said that there is a 'point when there are as many neural connections being generated inside in a very short period of a few days of the gestation period as there are stars in the galaxy… a galaxy existing inside the mother body… Let me hear your transformational desires… I’m listening… XIs it what I should (know is ethically right to) transform or what I want to (selfish fulfilment of ego) transform? There is a 'dream' transformation list vs a 'fantasy' transformation list…! Okay here's what I know I should do, deep down… Areas to Transform: 1… Replace the fantasy (J) with the dream (writing): sacrifice what you want (will cause pain) for what you need (will bring healing)2… Replace distraction (outer stimulus) with satisfaction (inner stimulation, 'being') 3… Develop concentration (longer) and focus (deeper) introduce intellectual challenge: more reading of more challenging texts4… Instead of chasing short-term thrills, seek long-term fulfilment 5… Maintain health and fitness commitment but without the need for others' approval or to be attractive to men6… Pay attention to and value those around you, appreciate what you have 7… I know I should do all these things, but what if I don't want to? Why, when I'm supposed to be maturing, do I feel selfish and childish again? I want I want. PS I loved the 'magpie' story. If I change my actions, will my thoughts and feelings follow? What happens to unfulfilled desires? Do they simply die? Or are they transformed into creativity, or work, or channelled into other pursuits or existing relationships? Do we have a finite or infinite amount of love to share? Are there limits on the number of valuable emotional connections we can build and nurture? Is it natural selection, pair breeding requirements or social restrictions and conventions that determine the number of lovers or partners we have, whether consecutively or simultaneously, or is there a deeper value to monogamy and exclusivity?

Boy beards. Mummy play! My nest is my bed and my bed is my nest. Nests of Hair. Happy, Sad, Mad, Bad, Radiant… Cuddle. Talk. make love, fuck, self love, self pleasure, alone time. Peace. Secrets and sharing. Body and soul. Thrill and overspill. Temptation, truth, self and other. Triumph. Reading. Seeking. Longing. Belonging. Wisdom wanking wildness. The wild child within. Rampant. Old age beauty. Old age fire. Model wisdom. Modelling wisdom. Being a role model. A model role. Do not go gentle into that dark night. Flirt. Fight. Fantasy. Flight. Footloose and fancy free but Mummy what’s for tea?

Our Penultimate Day of Phase 1! Wow! So today it is all about resourcing ourselves for the journey ahead. We have by now played with and identified our touch, traction and transformational directions… This has been an AMAZING process and so mutually moving I feel very privileged to be working wth you all. Thank you. Attention/Acceptance/Appreciation/Affection/AllowingNestingTouchingWomb/Within/Feeling SpaceBeside/Between/Feeling VoidsFeminine Within/PerformedTechnological Touch/Network8/9. Post-truth 'You 'like' or you 'fight' Story-ing and Slippages. Story-ing and Slippages. Collisions. Collectives. Climaxes. Peaks. Structural Holes. Webs. Networks. Trouble. Traction. Transform. Mapping our Skies. Traction into Transformation. Imaginal Discs. Supposition and Soup. A Dynamic Relationship. Wheel of Life. Artist, Participant, Group. Listening. What is in your back pack? The unknown ‘known’… So today I invite you to pack your bag for your journey. What have you learnt on your journey so far… (in life and in the last 21days…) … what is coming with you? ‘Wherever I lay my hat, that's my home’ Alice Tuppen-Corps, December 2016. Displaced Women PDF Alice.. pdf Alice Tuppen_Corps_ for TETTT. docxWe have started and/or deepened our own relational ‘Transformational Encounters’ virtually together in this ‘Evernote’ holding space… Some of you have already started encountering each other of your own volition ‘outside’ the virtual space and spending time together in the ‘real’ world… I have also spent a a few moments with some of you, over coffee, taking photos, fixing a ‘naughty’ computer, sharing a beer, listening to some music, having a meal or experiencing a reading… You have also spend time with intimate friends and loved ones over soup… or even encountered ‘unknown' ‘strangers' or dialogued with the ‘known’ ‘estranged’, over chance meetings or through ‘awkward’ transforming conversation… Today once you have packed your bag of ‘intimate resources/objects’ if you wanted to share these with one other person other than yourself who would this ‘famous’ person from history or the present day be? Why would you choose them? What would you want to tell or share with them about you or your ‘intimate resources/objects'? What might you want from them? When you reach your destination where would that be, where would you nest down for the day, night, week, experience together…? Ideas: Poetry, singing, running shoes, family photos… keep on moving… keep on loving The first one that got away… Danja Mesedge2003 Brazil… 2016 France… trying to recapture the freedom?? Sky showing me the way # direction # message Wake up selfie Tshirt turban Romantic poet style

Love. Nesting. Touch… As fellow humans, engaging together right now, it doesn’t matter whether ‘we’ are energetically residing in our own male or female, (and potentially states in-between or be-coming) bodies, what we all have in common is that we have all been ‘carried’ within the female womb, body, nest, space… I invite you today to consider re-imagining your residency within your/a/the mothers deep trasnformational womb space. Her body held you for around 9-months in a state of ‘un-gendered being’… a third space, a place of becoming… suspension… before we knew ourselves to be birthed as 'male or female'… Imagine, remember, explore and make present this affective place of feeling… How might it feel to re-experience this place in a metaphorical sense that allows, ‘the other’ [you] to be ‘within me [or another] charged’. Bracha Ettinger calls this ‘Thinking (M) otherwise’ (2006) where does this thinking… feeling re-imagining lead you… Link to video on you tube: Eyes of the Skin. pptx'The eyes want to collaborate with the other senses. All the senses, including vision, can be regarded as extensions of the sense of touch – as specialisations of the skin. ' (Pallasmaa, J 2012: 42)So much of our life is looking for the ultimate acceptance from parents, but particularly our mothers. I wonder if at some deep-seated level we always resent them for being unable to replicate the security of the womb when we leave their bodies and almost try and punish them for it somehow. What if the patriarchy was built on a huge insecurity, a huge vaccuum always trying to punish women for having the ultimate life giving power, a body with a womb and vagina and vulva that belongs entirely to her, which she has the right to give and share or to reclaim and reclose. Women are reviled for being too sexual, mocked for not being sexual, pitied, ignored when post menopausal. So much of being a woman is about the body and ownership. The dance between mother and daughter is perhaps one of recognition, as we both suffer the same judgments and are both in thrall to the push and pull of the womb and that invisible umbilical cord which connects us to our mothers and our children forever. Sometimes it pulls taut and sometimes it is more relaxed sometimes it is unravelling and sometimes she pulls it, just to make sure she can still get you back. But it can never be cut. We mustn't fight it, I think, but gently hold it, caress it, make sure it doesn't break. It is as fragile as it is strong.

By Dan Quinn Own work, CC BY-SA 3. 0, The first image if is of the 'Lorenz Attractor’ a set of chaotic solutions of the Lorenz system which, when plotted, resemble a butterfly or figure eight or the 'Butterfly Effect’… The 'Butterfly Effect' in simplistic ‘Alice’ terms is a concept that small causes/actions/events can have large effects/impact/resonances… much like a stone when dropped in a pond sends out many ripples… ever increasing and decreasing circles… Similarly the Hummingbird… more insect in many ways than bird the movement of its wings move in a figure of eight pattern… they ‘shape shift’… changing the shape of the wing to fine tune or adjust to stay ‘lifted'… their wings can turn 180 degrees rotation… they have a huge heart that pumps blood up to 1260 beats a second and a brain bigger than any other bird relative to their size. Their embodied memory is vast and remembers all the species of flowers they have ever fed on and they ‘know’, when the nectar will be at its fullest… they can also see and hear much much further than humans… So Hummingbirds can fly forwards, backwards, sideways, upside down, straight up, down, hover… they create 75% of their lift on the ‘downstroke’ and 25% of their lift on the ‘upstroke’ they can quickly change direction whether on the up or down stroke… they can utilise the ‘positive' and ‘negative' points of this traction, action to generate decisive change… Today I would like you to imagine yourself as a Hummingbird. What is your Lift? What is your Drag? What is your Thrust? What Grounds you? How do you keep afloat or in flight? What propels you forward? (Your huge heart? Your memory of where to find nourishment? Your ability to adapt? Your ability to change direction and focus on what resources you have within you? Your ability to drop excess baggage?) In Drama speak: Our mutual co-effecting roles here are to: Contribute, Improvise, Develop, Refine and Polish to together 'take flight’ but be adaptable to move backwards, forwards, sideways, up, down and hover in order to ‘transform… 'In Forum Theatre: The ‘teacher/artist’ demonstrates… perhaps ’stopping and starting’ the development of the piece… going back to the beginning at times… discussing changes that could be made to ‘deepen’, tease out’, ‘better understand’ the ’situation/insight/sharing’ which in this 21 day process is my ’noticings’… In generating drama/art/storying we need to be open to the process and feel safe in an unjudgemental environment of ‘openly' making ‘mistakes’ so that we can ‘curiously' connect our work to our own lives and then choose if we wish to re-work them… this is a ’connotive rather than denotive’ process (Davis 2010: 48). In Action Research: 'Action research is about change and intervention.’ (O’Toole, J, 2006: 51). We are using my prompts, (artist/facilitator/muse as Participant 17 has said), to examine how to change a present situation ‘actively’, and to also ‘actively' interrogate our pasts and any 'troublesome situations’ that still reside in body-memory and to excavate the option to creatively and playfully 're-story’ ourselves into positive affect. I end with this video of 'The Klein Bottle' from Klein Bottle fanatic and enigmatic mathematician Cliff Still if your inside and outside had no ends, beginnings, edges… ups, downs, sideways… no male or female inward or outward constructs… what would you ‘wear on your outside’ what would you 'wear on your inside’… what would an integrated 4D you look like… what ripples would you send out into our very limited ‘Post-Truth’ 2017 world… to activate change?… am no mathematician and I’ll leave that to Participant 6 who I hope will help with all of that… but I am a thinker, researcher, artist and explorer and so are you all so let me know what comes up for you while you explore this state of being co-creatos somewhere in space and time… As Prof Brian Cox says: ‘If I leave a place in space, then it doesn’t cease to exist when I left it, and in space-time, if I leave an event it doesn't cease to exist when I’ve left it’ (12: 07: 2016). XWhat is your Lift? Creativity, contributing, helping others, making a difference, living up to expectations, inner drive to improve What is your Drag? distraction / attractionWhat is your Thrust? achieving, being appreciated, sharing ideas, making things better What Grounds you? family and friends, truth-tellersHow do you keep afloat or in flight? singing, hoping, dreaming, working hard, putting one day in front of anotherWhat propels you forward? the only alternative is backwards? the thought of death? how desire is the opposite of death like Blanche in Streetcar fantasy makes reality more bearable, escapism is the salve or the salvo? against boredom, ennui and emptiness. Keeping the brain, mind, spirit and soul ever curious, lively and young although it is trapped inside the ever-decaying flesh prison! if your inside and outside had no ends, beginnings, edges… ups, downs, sideways… no male or female inward or outward constructs… what would you ‘wear on your outside’ what would you 'wear on your inside’… what would an integrated 4D you look like… what ripples would you send out into our very limited ‘Post-Truth’ 2017 world… to activate change?… outwards flows golden light soft diffuse and floating, dust motes dancing in the warmth of the rays… strafing through the dusty langour fly multi-coloured streamers, unrolling as if thrown out hard and fast, hoping to be caught… or maybe to hit someone… long dark hair blowing in the breeze, growing ever longer, playful tendrils adrift, some turning grey then pure silvery white, unravelling longer and longer, further away, becoming entwined with seaweed and mermaids tails… behind which, floating dangerously on the breeze carries the voice of a Siren, beautiful but deadly, enticing sailors onto the rocks… their ships creating driftwood destined to wash in the tide for hundreds of years, becoming softer, softer, softer, more and more gnarled over time, creating new shapes, becoming lighter, lighter, lighter and floating back to shore once again, now becoming tangled in bloody entrails, intestines sprawled on the beach where my guts have spilled because I have no boundaries because my inside and outside have no endsthat's what I see

I invite you to complete the following sentences as you feel moved to: I never touch… spidersI like to touch… my loved ones I am completely in touch with… my bodyI have felt touched by… this process I wish I had touched… Dan I like being touched on… my skinI swear I never touched… that Terry's chocolate orange! I left a mark on… JamieI am touched every time… my children appreciate meI like to touch base by… messaging or calling I like to touch base with… friends and family The past touches me like… an ache How much am I in touch with me? 80% Can I see your hands? Yea Images: Here are mine… Just got my nails toes and hands done at a new nail bar down the road. Tried shellac for the first time & feel very glam and ladylike! Have started to do more 'maintenance' beauty treatments the older I get and am enjoying it although sometimes I feel vain!

Thank you for some really thought provoking responses on Day 7: Touch. Screen Digital Technologies. This response from Participant 11 You 'like' or you ‘fight' is particularly apt for this next stage of ’Traction’ Days 8 14. As a theme for the next 7 days I invite you to think about ‘Traction’ as a kind of ‘drawing' in… or a ‘pulling' away from… or a drawing away from, or pulling in towards… a kind of ‘adhesive friction’, between one thing, (idea, person, screen/object) and another, (idea, person, screen/object) to potentially ‘connect', ‘correct’, ‘heal’, ‘mend’, ‘overcome’, ‘relocate’ ‘reach out’ ‘pull towards 'a given ‘impetus’ or ‘advancement’ or 'desired result’… This ‘motion or potentially 'e-motion’ is as Participant 9 says often ‘Bittersweet’. Today I invite you to start to explore your own life story by writing down a narrative about an intimate encounter between yourself and another person/object/idea/place etc. that you consider to be at an ‘early' ‘threshold moment’ in your past life. Write it in the first person, like it is a story that you are re-living in this very moment – try to go with what first comes into your head… then write it down from your senses and from your heart. To do this, and as a starting point only, I draw upon the work of Narativ, www. narativ. com . Jane Nash and Dan Milne are practitioner's and contemporaries of mine who use this particular method of storytelling and one which I have experienced with them on several occasions to great affect. One of their principles is that there is a reciprocal relationship between listening and telling. And so I am inviting you to tell and I will listen… from a state of noticing and non judgement. I invite you to use their ‘What Happened’ method telling your story by sticking to ‘What Happened?’ as distinct from giving: OpinionsJudgementsInterpretationsCommentaryand resisting a description of internal processes, so avoid: I thoughtI feltI decidedI realisedetc. Instead use the idea of a ‘sensory camera’ What did you hear, see, taste, smell, touch in your ’threshold’ moment/story/event? e. g. 'It is London 1976. I am five years old. I am standing in a small school hall. I have patent leather sandals on my feet. The room smells of plasticine and cooked liver. Muffled voices are coming out from behind the coats that hang haphazardly on hooks by the blue door with a wire window it's centre. My hands are clammy. I see my mothers legs walking away from me towards the… 'Use this Story Arc guide below to ‘map’ your personal story and start by planning your: First line: Last Line: Turnings Point(s): What Happened First Line. Where are the turning point/s? (Narativ) What Happened Last Line. POINTS OF TRACTION (Alice T-C)I look forward to hearing and feeling your stories… 😃 FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO LIKE MORE BACKGROUND AND THEORY/PROMPTS see below: Participant 9 went on to say: 'I sat on the train, I looked around and I am not exaggerating, every single person in the carriage had their head down either on a laptop, iPad or phone. Some people had headphones on, some were texting away, some talking and all were in their own little world. I did not have any eye contact from anyone. I felt excluded and alone. That sense of being excluded made me want to reach for my phone and I realised I was only wanting to do so because I felt alone. I wanted to 'connect' with someone, something of interest. I felt a different sense of aloneness sitting there on a train full of people. Attention was elsewhere. It was focused in and out via digital devices. It was not in the immediate space, environment around the people. I do it myself and I know that I am cutting off and going somewhere more comfortable.’ (Participant 9). Many of you also mentioned ‘Trump’: 'Trump is nothing but fake peddling fake news, and yet the residents of the most powerful Country in the world has put their faith in him, (well just under half of them in actual fact)!’ (Participant 13). As I was starting to write this yesterday, 15th May 2017, I also happened to listened upon the attached radio programme. It was called ‘Truth’ Post-Truth and Revolution… StartTheWeek-20170515-PostTruthAndRevolution. mp3To summarise the debate: The speakers talked of 'emotional narratives with more powerful resonances than hard facts'. That our new technologies have a semblance of 'voracity and viral power’, and that depending on the ‘impetus’ or ‘desired result’ can give ‘certain lies… certain traction at certain times.’ So with such fertile ground for 'blaming someone for something’ their is a collapse of 'possibility and potentiality’ bought about through a disbelief in ‘political' agency (truth/facts) and the replacement of ‘personal' agency (celebrity/emotion) a symptom rather than a cause of our times… With emotional resonance overtaking facts, the algorithms that drive social media rocket boost this tendency to feed us with things ‘certain lies’ that we 'feel already’, feeding us dis-information across a network of friends and family who we trust and we forget to be critical of each other… 'We live in an echo chamber – we hear things we want to hear… ’So what we are doing today is perhaps starting to look at how we can create an emotional narrative that brings 'credibility into our ecosystems' – ways to debunk the post-truths by using emotion not as a short cut to sustaining ‘old power systems’ but to 'research new and innovative ways' of challenging our existing hegemony, by bring a variety of voices, giving greater context to feelings and subjective ‘truths’ plural and perhaps seeking to help us think more critically and affect each other more deeply? Trumps ‘heart’ drove the bombing on Syria… not rationality. This is what happens with ‘viral’ emotion in the wrong hands… It is 'Intimately ‘rational’ to distrust our institutions… we need to recognise the power structures behind the viral ’truths’ – there is not one truth. This is Our times… what emotional narratives to we want to resonate that counter ‘certain lies’ with ‘certain truths’ many subjectivities… many voices, many potentialities, many choices… X I watched their car pull away. Excitedly I went to put on my best (only) pretty set of matching underwear. I was 15. He was 19. He was at university. Well, a poly… It was before mobile phones and emails. We had met in the pub, exchanged addresses how quaint! and started writing letters. He told me my skin was like alabaster. We had nicknames for each other from Winnie the Pooh. His name was Chris. I don't even know if I was attracted to him as I understand attraction now. I romanticised him. Shortly after they had left, his car pulled up. The underwear was cream lace: not soft but quite hard and ridged. The bra was underwired and was also lacy, with a satin panel between the breasts with two small satin buttons. I remember the condom packet was aesthetically unappealing: 80s black, red and grey colour scheme. The packet was black, with a grey central panel featuring a red sports car and diagonal stripes behind it. I think the name of the condoms was Arouser. I can vividly picture the underwear set and that packet far more so than his face or his body. I was excited that I was about to 'do it' but I don't remember being aroused. It was slightly uncomfortable but it didn't hurt. There was a little bit of blood. I washed myself and my knickers afterwards. He left. I looked in the mirror to see if I looked any different and whether people would be able to tell. My parents didn't seem to when they came home. I told my friends the next day at school that is done it. I didn't hear from him again. Later I would wish I had waited for my first proper boyfriend, who I had fun with and was so much more attracted to. But it was like a job that needed doing. Chris got it out of the way.

A friend once said to me that the, 'problem with the world is that we have divided it up with lines as borders, and printed bits of paper as wealth’. Prompted by the events of the Manchester Bombings today 😔… as a’ species’ we have also seemingly coerced ‘love' into separate waring factions of religion, power, conflict and division. A participant from my last piece, ‘Situating the Reciprocal’ said of his experience within this artwork, 'If it is a unique contribution to knowledge, then it is a unique contribution to our understanding of love.’ (‘SITUATING THE RECIPROCAL’, MR: 2016). And today perhaps of all days in the UK since July 7 2005 it seems to me ever more important to ‘map a field of connections and love’ and not ‘build barriers and walls of division and hate’. This TETTT work we are doing is important not just to academia and art but hopefully to us, our ‘species’ and planet. By our really listening and wanting to ‘hear’ each other and connect through and beyond our differences… we surely make small steps away from ‘hate' and towards a more hopeful, restorative and unique contribution to ‘love’. Stephanie Hunter. Natal Chart Report St. pdfSo I have noticed over the past fortnight your many different ‘mappings’ of love, journeying, connection, touch, movement, out, back, between, within, beyond to include yesterday your own personal maps of connections, familial, romantic, collegial and other… Today, as a bit of ‘fun’ and in order for me to practically ‘collect’ your data, I have mapped your birth chart for each of you. This 'natal chart’, is a picture of ‘your' sky at the exact time of your birth showing where the planets were in relation to the earth and the zodiac when you were born. These charts create interesting ‘shapes’ and if you wish to draw anything more from them in terms of the ‘meaning of the positions’, on your 'temperament, patterns of behaviour, general characteristics' and the 'potential influences’ the planetary positioning might have on your life then please do so. If this is the case I suggest you look at the chart diagram, maybe reading the blurb on the PDF also and noticing what leaps out at you in relation to your own 14 days of mapping your experiences of ‘Touch’ and ‘Traction’ response. Are there any further useful traction points of cross-reference, resonance and resource in relation to your birth skies that might be worth recording? What seems to align? What seems untrue? What insights/resistances offer traction? Any more ‘aha’ moments in image, word, thought, sense, action, colour, sound, hue? What intimacy, ‘in-to-me-i-see’ to you see when your 'sky and earth’, or your 'you and I' collide? This is mine: For example in mine these are the useful ‘planetary’ musings that for me seem to some how correlate with my own ‘earthly’ experiences and reflections: Perhaps the early family life was lacking in supervision or clearly defined rules. A father figure may have been absent or distant and ineffective. You may have a glorified image of your father. Whether the image is very positive or very negative (or if it swings between these extremes), the image is not very clear or rational. Whatever the case may be, you struggle with defining who you are. You might be susceptible to being taken advantage of by others, especially by men or authority figures. You may be easily led astray by peculiar desires or self-destructive habits. You may struggle with early conditioning that made you feel tossed aside or neglected in some way, and certainly not directed or supported. You are not much scared of anything. You enjoy and embrace growth, especially of the psychological kind. You look for symbols, and read between the lines in most any situation. You are not afraid to get your hands dirty, and you are usually quick to help others--not only with mundane tasks, but also on a spiritual or psychological level. You are not a do-gooder nor are you a law-breaker. However, you are not afraid of the dark side of human nature, and you will bend the rules from time to time if you feel the need to do so. You take particular pleasure in growth and life's lessons. You are not fond of superficiality, and are generally the first to spot pretense of any kind. You are passionate and can be intense. Highly imaginative. She fantasizes frequently. She falls back into her imaginary world. Dreamlike. Your imagination is so powerful that it can be hard to trust your instincts. You easily imagine things going wrong, just as you easily fantasize about good things! You are usually found chasing a dream… or a fantasy. The former is probably the better path. You are very responsive, communicative, and curious. She likes research, investigations, inquiries. Studies well. She is fascinated with all that is unexplored, mysterious, taboo, secret, and psychological. Loves research and has a great mind. She wants to know the motivation behind what people do. Her senses lead. It is only when you get into touch with your heart and discover your true desires that you realize that sensations are merely sensations--not deeply satisfying or fulfilling. Sometimes prone to feelings of guilt about their anger, and difficulties with asserting themselves, Mars in Pisces individuals seem to go with the flow. As you have difficulty trusting in your ability to go after things that you want in a direct manner. It may also be that you have difficulty pinpointing what it is that you want, or that part of you doesn't feel you deserve it due to a basic lack of self-confidence. You fear rejection as well as criticism, and often use roundabout means to go after what you want. If you do feel resentment for giving up your power to someone else, learn to avoid giving it up unless you truly understand that you are doing it for yourself, and not for someone else. Adopting a more direct and assertive approach to life is something that you should be working towards. Values people and personal freedom most. Wants to show unique perspective or skills. Open to new methods and progress. Crafty, subtle and critical. Great tolerance and humanitarianism. She knows what's going on at a glance. She thirsts after knowledge, and is a good organizer. She is very independent, likes her freedom of action, is a non-conformist. Possesses a serious mind, sometimes wishing to be more free and breezy. Pluto represents transformations, mutations and elimination. They have charming smiles, a gentle approach with others, and an easygoing image. She will study for a long time, will be erudite. Very intelligent, an open and independent spirit, will have a connection with foreign countries. Fertile intelligence. She will leave the family home reasonably young. Likes liberty, wants a life that is out-of-the-ordinary, and certainly one that does not correspond with Mum and Dad’s. Likes studying, is open to anything new, accepts and recognizes her errors, always develops in a positive sense. Likes travel, discovery, meeting new people and knows how to appreciate them. All the leadership qualities are there: authority, sense of organization, initiative, intelligence, but also thanks to outside help. She is a fighter. Her knowledge is the result of study but also of the down-to-earth nature that characterizes her. Marriage doesn't bring luck, honors come as she imagined they might. These are the areas which stood out for me from the natal chart… I feel these weaknesses, especially vanity, coming out in my 40s. I can be proud, vain, arrogant and presumptuous but I don't look down on others and I can also be humble definitely look for the good and respect the skills and achievements of others. Possibly let myself off the hook a little more as I get older… sometimes this is a good thing, a 'letting go' of unreasonable expectations by self or others… sometimes it may be a weakness allowing myself to pursue the wrong path due to a moral weakness? I would still love to travel and even work abroad… I feel I have more long haul travel in me… will plan this with family but also yearn for the taking off and backpacking solo days. Will they come again? The restlessness speaks to me. I like stability, security and routine but also crave novelty and stimulation. I like excitement, intensity, drama and high emotional states. I think the warning about 'the grass is greener' applies to me and usually head rules heart here… Yes I attract change and disruption and desire yet fear it. Am I subconsciously or consciously attracting this disruption and what do I hope to provoke? Yes I have attracted a partner with a hot temper and deep emotions who is seeking his own deeper fulfilment and creative realisation. He shows his love in many everyday and practical ways… and I know the value of these… but perhaps the drama queen in me wants huge gestures, romantic gifts, extravagant compliments. Do I want to provoke a reaction? A declaration? A conflict? A duel? I want Heathcliff over Darcy every time. Maybe some kind of medieval knight / princess fairytale issue going on !! Power & independence vs powerlessness and being rescued. I don't think I come across as distant ? But do perhaps have a need to be appreciated which makes me superficial? I don't think that 'marriage is not for me' but have always thought I'd be equally happy single. If I hadn't married I would have been sad not to be a mother but think I would have still had a fulfilling creative life. I am easily seduced by the new and exciting which may make me a bit shallow? I am quite practical and logical on the surface but spend a lot of time in my imagination. Chasing the dream and not the fantasy seems good advice!! Interesting here that 'too great an independence' may not be good for me. I agree I need checks and balances, a sensible partner or boss against whom I can 'rebel' or challenge, but who I know is a good guide and mentor that can keep me on track and act as my moral compass when I may be a little shaky, distracted or tempted I need to spread my wings but I like to come back to the nest. I may give out mixed signals I'm fiercely independent but I like to be looked after. I'm a feminist who sometimes wants a caveman or a knight in shining armour. I want to be alone but crave attention and feedback. The thought that's bothering me today is Do I pretend to be a nice person but really I'm not that nice at all? Do I give out mixed signals? Saw this in a friend's gift shop and it seemed like a personal message rather than a label for a section of cards…

I wonder if I've been changed in the night. Let me think. Was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But if I'm not the same, the next question is 'Who in the world am I? ' Ah, that's the great puzzle!  (The Caterpillar, Alice In Wonderland, Lewis Carroll). ‘To become a butterfly, a caterpillar first digests itself. But certain groups of cells survive, turning the soup into eyes, wings, antennae and other adult structures’. 'Before hatching, when a caterpillar is still developing inside an egg it grows an imaginal disc for each of the adult body parts it will need as a mature butterfly… discs for wings… legs… so on… once the caterpillar has disintegrated all of its tissues, except for the imaginal discs, those discs use the protein rich soup all around them to fuel the rapid cell division required to form the wings and the legs… eyes… genitals and all other features of an adult butterfly… ''By the end of metamorphosis certain caterpillar muscles and sections of the nervous system are largely preserved in the adult butterfly… [some] studies even suggest that butterflies ‘remember' what they learnt in the later stages of their former lives as caterpillars…’ (J, Ferris, Scientific American, 2012: 10)On Day 5 Participant 7 (a musician) wrote: 'At this point, I need to talk about thought and touch/impression. I imagine motions before actually exercising them. I play musical phrases in my fingers (sometimes moving them very slightly but often not at all). I can 'feel' melodies, rhythms and harmonies inside my hands. It's like preparation. My brain is feeling those things out before implementing them. I've walked a road before I've walked it. ’So: What layers have you have shed…? (What were you fed as a child? (Touch) What did you learn as a teenager. (Traction)? What remains in your muscle memory, that you silently rehearse? What happens when you become ‘transparent’ a state that is not caterpillar nor either yet butterfly what rests in these places of ‘becoming?’ What is in this your ‘secret dwelling place’ now? I invite you to ‘draw’ (or if more comfortable for you to sing, speak, map, write, photograph, dance) what it might look like to ‘rearrange’ your 'caterpillar self’ into a butterfly? You may find it useful to think about: What is your adult self needing to do, say, show, resource, feed now? (Transform) This is my son hanging as a chrysalis from a tree… What would your free child say to you adult self now go and play with it… :) Conflicting modification by akeenan232 on 5 June 2017 at 22: 29: 25: I wonder if I've been changed in the night. Let me think. Was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But if I'm not the same, the next question is 'Who in the world am I?' Ah, that's the great puzzle!  (The Caterpillar, Alice In Wonderland, Lewis Carroll). ‘To become a butterfly, a caterpillar first digests itself. But certain groups of cells survive, turning the soup into eyes, wings, antennae and other adult structures’. 'Before hatching, when a caterpillar is still developing inside an egg it grows an imaginal disc for each of the adult body parts it will need as a mature butterfly… discs for wings… legs… so on… once the caterpillar has disintegrated all of its tissues, except for the imaginal discs, those discs use the protein rich soup all around them to fuel the rapid cell division required to form the wings and the legs… eyes… genitals and all other features of an adult butterfly… ''By the end of metamorphosis certain caterpillar muscles and sections of the nervous system are largely preserved in the adult butterfly… [some] studies even suggest that butterflies ‘remember' what they learnt in the later stages of their former lives as caterpillars…’ (J, Ferris, Scientific American, 2012: 10)On Day 5 Participant 7 (a musician) wrote: 'At this point, I need to talk about thought and touch/impression. I imagine motions before actually exercising them. I play musical phrases in my fingers (sometimes moving them very slightly but often not at all). I can 'feel' melodies, rhythms and harmonies inside my hands. It's like preparation. My brain is feeling those things out before implementing them. I've walked a road before I've walked it. ’So: What layers have you have shed…? (What were you fed as a child? (Touch) What did you learn as a teenager. (Traction)? What remains in your muscle memory, that you silently rehearse? What happens when you become ‘transparent’ a state that is not caterpillar nor either yet butterfly what rests in these places of ‘becoming?’ What is in this your ‘secret dwelling place’ now? I invite you to ‘draw’ (or if more comfortable for you to sing, speak, map, write, photograph, dance) what it might look like to ‘rearrange’ your 'caterpillar self’ into a butterfly? You may find it useful to think about: What is your adult self needing to do, say, show, resource, feed now? (Transform)This is my son hanging as a chrysalis from a tree… What would your free child say to you adult self now go and play with it… :) The videos of 'Fix You' are for this day mend first then rebuild. I don't know how to save them into this Day. I heard the song at the Manchester One Love concert after the bombing and it was the perfect timing. That night, after I heard 'Fix You', I had this dream (see picture) it was a really vivid dream, one where you wake up and think it has happened. It seemed like the building from Lego was the concrete representation of the dream or fantasy I wanted him to build for me. The building, the fixing, joined together, all seemed symbolic. Both external though, and perhaps male giving up agency to a male narrative of 'fixing' problems or 'building' or perhaps trying to turn my 'castle in the air' into something concrete yet still a toy, so perhaps suggesting a childish fantasy? and one made of Lego so that can be deconstructed, suggesting it can be easily dismantled or destroyed and turned into something else? Certainly seems to do with play, escapism and fantasy. Very Alice-like too, with the ability to shrink and disappear into the Lego world to go and play. What do you think? What layers have you have shed…? (What were you fed as a child? (Touch)I have shed the need to finish a plate of food if I am not hungry. I have shed the need to please people in authority and get the 'right' answer. My favourite dinner was tuna fish casseroleI never really enjoyed eating meat unless it was spaghetti bologneseWhen I ate a roast dinner I would eat the vegetables first, then the potatoes, then the Yorkshire puddings (best for last) and try to get away with not eating the meatI remember being offended that I had a smaller plate than the adults as if they were trying to fool me by giving me a full plate that I was having as much as themMy dad ate so fast dinner times felt like a competition sometimesWhat did you learn as a teenager. (Traction)? That making my own choices was seen as being difficult, for example going vegetarian, even when I had left homeThat lying rather than having confrontations about potentially unacceptable or transgressive behaviour was easier than telling the truth and a tacit acknowledgment of unknown infringements was more acceptable than sharing the gory detailsThat the path to adulthood was secret, hidden, private when it came to drinking, drugs and sex What remains in your muscle memory, that you silently rehearse? Tennis, horse-riding, dancing, cartwheels, millions of songs, the feeling of kissing new peopleWhat happens when you become ‘transparent’ a state that is not caterpillar nor either yet butterfly what rests in these places of ‘becoming?’ It is painful because I am unformed and vulnerable, not in control and I don't know how it's going to turn out. It's not restful, it feels like nothing is resting, unless my brain becomes too tired to think and then I am just blanking. What worries me sometimes is that I'm in a state of limbo, waiting for something to happen, keeping busy, putting one day in front of the other, filling my time, passing the days, looking to the external, somehow existing passively rather than activating the 'switch' inside that will allow me to move from this state of inertia. What is in this your ‘secret dwelling place’ now? I don't know. Maybe a Lego fairground someone has made for me? Or a vulva birthing a book?!

Definition of transformation1 : an act, process, or instance of transforming or being transformedDefinition of transform1a : to change in composition or structureDefinition of supposition1 : something that is supposed : hypothesisDefinition of soup1 : a liquid food especially with a meat, fish, or vegetable stock as a base and often containing pieces of solid food2 : something (such as a heavy fog) having or suggesting the consistency or nutrient qualities of soupLooking a head I invite you to research and start to prepare how you might go about 'creating a beautiful soup or (other such dish/meal of your choosing) to eat with a loved one/s' sometime over the next remaining 7 days or so. You could cook for a lover, a sibling, a child, a dog… or a hidden aspect of yourself that would like to come out and play… Who will you invite and how will you invite them? What ingredients will you choose? Where will you buy them from? How will you prepare them? What do you want to gift to your guest? Where will you eat? What will you wear? What would you like to receive? What anxieties to you have about how they might receive you? What risks can you take? What is the worse thing that could happen? What is the BEST? How can you make this a truly transformational encounter? Marinating the tuna… that's a kind of transformational soup? Gift from the oceans… marinated in lemon, lime, ginger, garlic and mixed herbs from the garden. Vaguely following a recipe but without some of the ingredients (e. g. Oregano) so just winged it and made up my own marinade. Mission of the meal Trying to encourage the boys to eat more fish and salads a healthy sit down as a family summer lunch. Gift from mama chicken next… Got the boys to help me peel the eggs a transformational process we did together mother and sons my baby chicks helping me make the supper, unpeeling the homes of these unborn chicks… pick pick picking at the shells to reveal the smooth marble-like slippy surface beneath created by nature as a safe growing place and adopted by us as a source of protein for our growing boys. Nearly dropped them life can be slippery to get hold of. Trusting them with the knife to cut the eggs then sharp knife slippery surface small fingers mum letting go and trusting… Then potatoes from the earth just scrubbed but skins on this time… Hubble bubble toil and trouble Swirly Whirly spirals of courgette the boys love the spiralizer

My Mum always said ‘I know when you are having a trauma, I can tell by what you do with your hair!’ Over my 43 years my hair has been short, long, pink, blue, white, orange, red, brown, shaved, extended and au-natural. Mum is right. If I can’t change my life or my inner world I change my hair. Thankfully for a few years now the balance has tipped from ‘exterior’ to more ‘interior’ world change and my hair is pretty ‘normal’ now. My ‘alarm’ signals are less ‘performed’ and my world is reconfiguring ‘inside out’ rather than ‘outside in’. As we are all sharing in this journey not all ‘touch’ or ‘encounters’, or ‘emotions’ or ‘relationships’ are ‘nice’. Some ‘aha’ moments come from places of deep discord, disharmony and trauma. In 2015 I met a man that changed my life. He woke me up – I left my marriage (a relationship of 18 years) and I flew the nest. With the man I met I felt ‘alive’. Unfortunately, the man was not just my lover, but my liar. However, I still very much value that encounter. Why? Because he enabled me to see my own long lie and I left my marriage to live my truth. In my 2-year encounter with this he also taught me how to get back into my ‘feminine’. I realised I had arguably been living a ‘male’ and ‘maternal’ role in an unhappy marriage. My encounter with the masculine aspects of this man, allowed me to allow my own more feminine aspects to re-emerge. I put hair extensions in my hair, I took my own room and painted it ‘pink’, I dressed more ‘girlie’, I ‘tried on’ the feminine. This outside display allowed my inner world to reform. Reintegrate. Rebalance myself. After only 6 weeks I repainted the room back to white, but my inner feminine had rehomed herself inside me. I was never going to leave her again so I took her with me and we flew together. I invite you today to ‘try on your inner feminine’ what does it feel like? What does it mean? Whether we are residing in male or female bodies we live in Trump’s anti –feminine world, May’s anti feminine aspect. Where does your inner feminine reside. Does she need some love? Love that you can share with our world to change it? For those of you who like a bit of theory here is some, for those of you that don’t – go and sit in your wardrobe amongst the clothes, your clothes, your partner’s clothes, wrap yourself up in your favourite chair, spend all day in bed nesting cuddling your feminine self or a desiring and desirous object. Nurture your inner feminine today in all it multiple aspects. Let her surface, speak, become known. What does she say? ‘It is acknowledged that gender, determined by different genitalia, remains synonymous with female oppression. Much feminist discourse and subsequent queer studies therefore disclaim any return to this biological binary, seeing notions of essential self as mythical and gender/sex positions as instead socially and culturally constructed (Butler, 1990 & 1993) . Conversely, French feminist Cixous, reclaims the biological female body and associated femininities as source of celebration and liberation. Cixous names this process ecriture feminine, a method of female writing from deep within the body. Cixous proposes that all genders and sexualities can appropriate ecriture feminine, within a third space, ‘each one’s location in self… of the presence – variously manifest and insistent according to each person, male or female – of both sexes’ (Cixous 1976 in Marks and De Courtivron 1981b: 254). Indeed, her concept of an awareness of a presence within the self, of both sexes, to the ‘non exclusion either of the difference, or of one sex… [this] ‘self permission’, gives all bodies the potential to feel with multiplicity. (Cixous 1976 in Marks and De Courtivron 1981: 254) The Oedipus myth, normalised as representative of the entire human condition, only refers to father/son, mother/son relationships. It denies any matrilineal relationship of women connected to mothers, sisters and daughters or any suggestion of father/son, father/mother relationships that allow for a female jouissance within and between male bodies also. Roselind Gill (2007) refers to this as adopting a ‘feminine sensibility’. Where might adopting a ‘feminine sensibility’ perhaps help us reform our selves and our world in a different way gently but fiercely challenging, political, cultural and social governance from the inside out? Alice XFemininity or feminism for me is building the inner and outer strength to truly own my own body and mind, to choose how to use both for my authentic purpose, or for fun and enjoyment, and not to fear the judgement or mockery of others in doing so, even if I do not fit into patriarchal or societal norms or paradigms. 😘

Dr. David Richo, talks of five A's: 1. Attention2. Acceptance3. Appreciation4. Affection5. Allowing He says that by giving and receiving these five A's, relationships become deeper and more meaningful, and they become a ground for personal transformation. I invite you today to consider what these words might mean to you, how do you create a sense of these for yourself… for others… how does it feel when someone else gives these qualities to you? Have you experienced their opposites… Feel free to respond in anyway that moves you. LOVE. Alice. Am I giving myself the attention back which I have given to raising my children for ten years in a healthy way? As something nurturing, involving healthy food and exercise and time for reading, writing, art, cinema, theatre and seeing friends? Or am I seeing attention for something I fear I am losing? As the latter suggests an immaturity and insecurity rather than a mature coming back to self… I know I am loved and accepted by my family and friends. What is it I seek outside of this? I am fulfilled in my work and relationships. So why the attraction to social media? I have already left Facebook but simply replaced it (albeit on a smaller platform) on Instagram. Do I seek some form of external validation or public recognition and if so, why? Should I not be able to find this peace and acceptance within myself and my immediate circle of love? Is the fear of ageing making me childishly seek attention? Am I advertising to myself or others? Contributing to a 'healthy' narrative advertising my health and fitness in images online, as I focus on physical maintenance while emotionally I may struggle more to come to terms with the slow irrevocable process of ageing… Buying anti ageing products then pissing myself laughing when they arrive 😂😂 yet still using them anyway 🙈Or by engaging online, am I trying to connect with the world the way it now is? As another part of ageing is being left out or left behind as the younger generations move on to new forms of communication or bonding. There is a drift away from face to face connection, a strange dislocation from the voice everything typed onto a screen, considered before it is presented. Then again there is FaceTime but again it's about visual presentation. I like a voice call but only talk on the phone to a handful of my closest family and friends now. I suspect there will be some form of withdrawal from public sharing soon in general and among the younger generation and for me. I think also for me a retreat to the safer, kinder forum of smaller friendship groups on WhatsApp and/or the one to one connections of higher value than the superficial value of the wider crowd appreciation perhaps this is the process I am going through now. And perhaps to be truthful I think some of it is a kind of sexual advertising an 'am I still hot' signal as my desirability fades. Perhaps there is time for one last appreciation before invisibility… And that way danger lies! This by Rebecca Solnit encapsulates much of how I feel about how technology affects the purity and sanctity of the human attention, acceptance and appreciation of self and others. We are so distracted all the time that we are not truly present with others or even ourselves much of the time.

Day 2. Transformational Encounters. Touch as the, 'the mother of the senses', architect Juhani Pallasmaa (2012: 11). Nesting. Wikipedia defines: 'A nest is a structure built by certain animals to hold eggs offspring, and, occasionally, the animal itself.’ 'A nesting function in computer programming is a function which is defined within another function, the enclosing function.’ In his book ‘The Eyes of the Skin’ Finnish Architect Prof. Juhani Pallasmaa writes that 'Touch is the sensory mode that integrates our experience of the world with that of ourselves.’ (2012: 11) How do you nest? What is your experience of nesting? What nests have you built, destroyed, abandoned, redesigned? But the Penguin sits up. Lay down little Hen. I'll curl you up. But I like it like this. The Penguin sits up. He needs to nest. His body forms a soft circle. My husband leaves the room. I relax. My nest is my bed and my bed is my nest. I go there with my boys to read books and snuggle and jump about and play Lego wars in the snow (white blanket). I go there with T to read and cuddle and talk and make love and also to ignore each other to be elsewhere on our phones or reading and sometimes to wake up while he is still sleeping and peep to check he is still there and that I still love him (I do). I go to bed earlier than him to be peaceful and alone. I go there alone to rest and read and nestle and hide and cry. I go there to escape and fantasise and to make myself come and sometimes I think of other people and sometimes I use porn and sometimes I photograph and film myself. Spinning Solids. mov

(Plutchik, Wheel of Emotion) The morning of the Election results. It is 4.47am, June 9th 2017. No firm conclusions yet. A ‘hung’ parliament looking highly likely. It is 5. 59am, BBC Live, ‘It is a hung parliament’ and ‘That's the story’. (David Dimbleby 09/06/2017). Jeremy Corbyn’s campaign offered up ‘Some Hope’. He smiled, talked, touched, involved. Positive, Optimistic, Engaging. An Alternative. Teresa May's campaign offered up ‘Some Hope’. She stared, instructed, withdrew, avoided. Revealing that an inability to communicate, listen and share on a human level, does not achieve strength, equality, or stability. Thank you so much for having the courage to 'be real’ over these past 21 days. In a sense this has been ‘my own campaign’ and it has been reciprocated, so thank you so much for gifting me with your own authenticity and let us celebrate how much we have co-affected each other as activists for change. This is my last new ‘Prompt’ of Phase 1 Day 22. So having now ‘completed 22 days of reflection’ what ‘Resources of Hope’ can you offer ‘up’ to take forward into Phase 2 for yourself and for the group to together continue to create ' Transformational Encounters: Touch, Traction, Transform’ which will touch, trouble and transform future audiences within the TETTT exhibition, May 2018. How have you? Felt your own longings? Acted in alignment with your own truth? Taken the… Courage to be real? Touched, Traction-ed and Transformed your own life purpose? So far. Real isn't how you are made, ' said the Skin Horse. 'It's a thing that happens to you. When a child loves you for a long, long time, not just to play with, but REALLY loves you, then you become Real. ''Does it hurt? ' asked the Rabbit. 'Sometimes, ' said the Skin Horse, for he was always truthful. 'When you are Real you don't mind being hurt. ''Does it happen all at once, like being wound up, ' he asked, 'or bit by bit? ''It doesn't happen all at once, ' said the Skin Horse. 'You become. It takes a long time. That's why it doesn't happen often to people who break easily, or have sharp edges, or who have to be carefully kept. Generally, by the time you are Real, most of your hair has been loved off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints and very shabby. But these things don't matter at all, because once you are Real you can't be ugly, except to people who don't understand. I suppose you are real?  said the Rabbit. And then he wished he had not said it, for he thought the Skin Horse might be sensitive. But the Skin Horse only smiled. Quote above from 'The Velveteen Rabbit', Margery Williams Biano, first published in 1922. Felt your own longings? Acted in alignment with your own truth? Taken the… Courage to be real? Touched, Traction-ed and Transformed your own life purpose? So far.

Day 4: (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters. Touch. Artist, Psychotherapist and Mother Bracha Ettinger’s concept of ‘Carriance’ effectively means ‘to be carried’… Day 6. (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters. Touch. Fur. Furniture. Feeling Architectures. Trying on the feminine. Outside in. Inside out. Day 8. (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters. Traction. Post-truth, the Oxford Dictionary 'Word of the Year' 2016. You 'like' or you 'fight'. (Particpant 11). Day 9. (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters. Traction. The Loss of it. Slippages.. Day 10. (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters: Traction. Collisons. Day 12. (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters: Traction. Structural Holes. Spinning Solids. Day 13. Transformational Encounters. Traction. (Trouble, Traction, Transform) Day 14. (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters. Traction. Mapping our Skies. Worlds Collide. Day 15. (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters. Traction into Transformation. Day 16: (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters. Transformation. Imaginal Discs. Day 16: Response. A beautiful dream. Day 17: (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters. Supposition and Soup. Ingredients for Positive Personal Transformation. Day 17: Response. Birthing the book 😂 Day 18: (Prompt and Response) Transformational Encounters. A Dynamic Relationship. Day 21: Transformational Encounters. What's in your back pack? Day 22: Transformational Encounters. Resources of Hope.

But I thought you’d like this sharing from Participant 19 she’s only 23 and fab! but being so super cool yourself I expect you will have come across this in the big smoke with love from country mouse XHow do you feel that your use of social media fulfils and enables a sense of ‘connectedness, of belonging, of identification’ with others? (Jsselsteijn, W and Joy van Baren et al. ‘Staying in Touch’, 2003) 'It is the first and last thing I look at each day. The sense of wider network it brings is a quick fix, at first comforting, a social nourishment. But like all quick fixes the loneliness creeps in when you notice your reliance/addiction becoming so gripping you can't go a minute without feeling the 'twitch'. I read this great book by The Minimalists called Minimalism which coined the term for when your body gets these unstoppable urges to check your electronic device… The twitch. ’Twitch twitter tweet… Interesting! Yes indeed the twitch! And when combined with the twitch for someone you're waiting to hear from or thinking about or wanting updates from ..: hugely addictive… Will check out the book xx

Beautiful selfies. Healthy attention – gaining or losing. Immaturity. Insecurity. Growth? Wisdom? Social media. Wonderful Alice quote! Aging and youth. Inside outside. You look so young. Playful. Mark making. Magpie. Investigative. No stone unturned. Humour. Knowing. Families. Roles. Decay. Smiles. Technology and brooding. Time ticking. Research speeding up. Bookish. Keyboard flattened.

Boy beards. Mummy play! My nest is my bed and my bed is my nest. Nests of Hair. Happy, Sad, Mad, Bad, Radiant… Cuddle. Talk. make love, fuck, self love, self pleasure, alone time. Peace. Secrets and sharing. Body and soul. Thrill and overspill. Temptation, truth, self and other. Triumph. Reading. Seeking. Longing. Belonging. Wisdom wanking wildness. The wild child within. Rampant. Old age beauty. Old age fire. Model wisdom. Modelling wisdom. Being a role model. A model role. Do not go gentle into that dark night. Flirt. Fight. Fantasy. Flight. Footloose and fancy free but Mummy what’s for tea?

Steph: So much of our life is looking for the ultimate acceptance from parents, but particularly our mothers. What if the patriarchy was built on a huge insecurity, a huge vacuum always trying to punish women for having the ultimate life giving power, a body with a womb and vagina and vulva that belongs entirely to her, which she has the right to give and share or to reclaim and reclose. The dance between mother and daughter is perhaps one of recognition… [we] are both in thrall to the push and pull of the womb and that invisible umbilical cord which connects us to our mothers and our children forever. Sometimes it pulls taut and sometimes it is more relaxed sometimes it is unravelling and sometimes she pulls it, just to make sure she can still get you back. But it can never be cut. We mustn't fight it, I think, but gently hold it, caress it, make sure it doesn't break. It is as fragile as it is strong. Wow wonderful mother of two boys. I see you. I feel you. Just like me. But you only child, sole occupier of the womb and me first occupier but then usurped, rehomed and followed by three more nesting sisters. You are my sister too – sisters connected by something ethereal not just umbilical. Sisters that have the power across generations, mother wounds, friendship bonds, sisterly rivalry, to connect and not punish but teach and educate through our ultimate life giving and transformative power and feminine force. Down with patriarchy. We are strong and vulnerable and that is our unified strength! Sister to sister. LBS LOVE BLS. Down with ‘horizontal hostility’ I want to look more at this what can we do? 'Horizontal hostility occurs when members of a targeted group believe, act on, or enforce the dominant system of discrimination and oppression’

Working out and work -ing out it… Femininity or feminism Inner and outer strength to truly own my own body and mind Choice of ‘how’ to use both for my authentic purpose, fun enjoyment Not to fear the judgement or mockery of others in doing so, even if I do not fit in Hiding but flaunting? The platelets of our blood replacing what's lost… Love Loss Lust XXX My Chinese sign is Tiger, my horoscope Leo… ROAR!! ha ha!!

Hi Steph, Hope all is well wondered how you were getting on with Evernote and checking all is well thanks for your entries for Days 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8 I can't see entries for: Days 3, 5, 9-12 I wondered if you would like to make entries under the following ‘missed days’. As always it would be great to hear from you and hear you! No new prompt till midnight Monday so catch up time till Tuesday if you can/feel like it! :) Understand if you are just taking time to reflect when you can yourself but I just wanted to check it wasn't an Evernote syncing problem incase you needed some techie help! Alice :)