Some things I have the language for and other things not so much. This reimagining the womb experience has taken me a bit by surprise, I’m not sure I can manage it right now so I will just share some pictures with you.

I’ve skipped two for the moment because I’m aware that I am really behind on time and the previous two involve ‘doing’ a thing which I will get onto a.s.a.p. This has been a wonderful process to be part of, even though sometimes it felt like a bit of a chore, I was always happy to have responded to your prompts. In fact I feel rather sad to have reached the end because it has been such an opportunity to think about things I normally de-prioritise. So what hope can I offer? LOTS. In the snatches of time I’ve spent doing this, so many little windows have opened up. I am going to start that model (the crotch one) this afternoon and I can’t wait. I have re-discovered the joy of train journeys and the library as they have often created the opportunity of time and space to respond (which has so often felt like a meditation or a therapy session in a good way!). Mostly I have begun to re-learn ways of finding moments of stillness in my day and I hope I can keep it up because it’s very good for me! I am especially hopeful about my work because I have started thinking about it differently recently and that is definitely related to your interventions. And on that note, I am going to stop writing and start making. I will send pics…! Sneak preview: Noticings: A Rainbow Pool of Friends

I’m trying to meditate every day and this is almost as successful as my responses to your prompts so I am a bit behind! But that is what lifts me. And sometimes responding to you is a bit like meditation anyway in that it gives me a little time and space. I can visualise what meditation looks like and it’s a sunny garden space in between two buildings real fresh air, plants a trellis (!), birdsong, warm sun on my face etc but also sandwiched between other busier spaces. I’ve used mindfulness techniques for a long time, but my favourite was always to look up at the buildings and find shapes and patterns I liked but that doesn’t work so well now I’m out of London no big buildings. Conversely, anxiety is one of the biggest drivers in my life. When I can rein it in to a manageable level, it gives me just enough nervous tension to be really effective and to keep pushing through in difficult situations. I haven’t altogether managed to figure out how to keep it at this level though. My friends keep me grounded and my family cocoon me. I really really love my close friends. They are really different to each other (and to me) but they are all amazing, strong women who have been through a lot. I love our differences, they let me touch base with the ‘real’ world. All my close friends are also very upfront and honest, which is not what I experienced in my childhood relationships so I value it enormously now. My family (i.e. Peter and Ernest) don’t ground me so much as wrap me up in a big cosy blanket and make me feel very very safe. Handle or feel gently usually with the intent to understand or appreciate… to meet without overlapping or penetrating…’ Noticings: A Rainbow Pool of Friends

Day 3. Transformational Encounters. Touch. To ‘handle or feel gently usually with the intent to understand or appreciate… to meet without overlapping or penetrating…’. I invite you to complete the following sentences as you feel moved to: I never touch… my best friendsI like to touch… things that are solid and won't give way, my son’s chubby feet, my husbands hands I love hands! I am completely in touch with… my little boy, Ernest. I have felt touched by… seeing people in the migrant/refugee camps across Europe, especially families. I think this is heightened by the fact that I have such a young child myself and I feel so conscious of the effort to create an environment that is soft, warm, open and safe for him, so when I see these shacks and tents with the water leaking in and other people so close it makes me afraid for them. I wish I had touched… I don't really have many regrets, I’m pretty at ease with the past it’s the future that makes me nervous! So I can't really think of something I wish I had done differently like this. I like being touched on… depends who is doing the touching! I swear I never touched… class A drugs! I’ve always had intermittent phases of time when I am been brimming over with nervous energy (I always used to be the last one standing on the dance floor) and this has often been credited to some kind of chemical intervention, but no! I was even incorrectly diagnosed as bipolar because the swings used to be so extreme I’m a bit more balanced these days. I left a mark on… my first really serious boyfriend. I cheated on him many years ago and staying friends after we eventually broke up was just too complicated. I moved on pretty quickly but he still occasionally (10 years later) resurfaces and tries to make contact, but it always gets weird and bitter because he still gets very jealous. He has a wife and baby and I don’t doubt that he adores them, but I think he is still hurt by me and feels some need to fix that. I am touched every time… Ernest hugs me. It makes my heart actually ache. I like to touch base by… cooking a meal for/with a friend. I like to touch base with… my oldest friends, all people I didn’t expect to be friends with when I met them! They are all over the world now so I don’t get the chance too often. The past touches me like… it’s squeezing my heart ever so gently How much am I in touch with me? Getting a little closer all the time, but I am constantly surprised by how little I know myself and how changeable I am. If I sit quietly for a while making something with my hands, I feel quite in touch with myself but there are not many opportunities for that. Can I see your hands? Here they are, they are my most precious things even though they aren’t much to look at, I reckon could manage without anything else except my hands and my sight. Images: Here are mine…

Who will you invite and how will you invite them? Peter (my husband) I’ll send him a hand-drawn invitation so he knows it’s different to a normal meal! I know he’s a bit of an obvious choice but I don’t think we’ve had a special meal together for months and 8th June is our wedding anniversary so we have booked a babysitter. This is such a good idea Alice, we were going to go out for dinner but maybe we can have a picnic on the beach instead! :) What ingredients will you choose? Oysters, crab, whelks, rye bread, salad, strawberries and ice cream and WINEWhere will you buy them from? Food is really our thing and we are a bit obsessive about buying locally sourced food because it’s sustainable and tastes better. We used to run a gourmet pie company together and know all the local farmers and suppliers so I’ll get all the seafood from Folkestone Trawlers (they do the best whelks in the world most of them get exported to Korea where they are considered a extravagant delicacy like caviar!), the bread from our local bakers (Dockers) and salad and strawberries from our friend Steve Parsley at Walmestone Growers. We have a special bottle of wine in the cupboard that we got a couple of months ago and decided to save for our anniversary, so we’ll have that and probably some beers from the new trendy beer shop in Folkestone. How will you prepare them? With homemade mayonnaise and shallot vinegar, thrown in a basket and laid out on a cloth on the beach, without a thought for the the day's politics (n. b. we will vote first!) What do you want to gift to your guest? Time and space! Peter normally only gets the bits of my day that are leftover when everything else is done and we both give up space to Ernest and Oakley (the dog) who won’t even let us sit next to each other on the sofa (he squeezes in between us). Where will you eat? On the beach probably Sunny Sands, you can see France from there on a clear day! What will you wear? BRIGHT COLOURS. I’m never quite sure if I dress to reflect my mood or the other way around… What would you like to receive? Just him (Peter) without any stress on his mind and with minimal pain (he has arthritis) would be goodWhat anxieties do you have about how they might receive you? Not many, I’m at my most relaxed with Peter. But sometimes when we relax together for the first time in a while we end up bickering and I hope that doesn’t happenWhat risks can you take? Not sure about this one I think I’ve taken this whole thing in a bit of a boring route for you! I don’t really think about taking risks with Peter, I think we take lots of risks together or in our work, but not much feels risky within the context of our relationship. How dull of us! What is the worse thing that could happen? Rain or an argument! What is the BEST? FOOD, WINE, BRIGHT COLOURS, THE SEA and actually having a conversation with my husband that isn’t about scheduling or childcare! How can you make this a truly transformational encounter? By making the most of the time and space and by asking and listening a lot. We need to talk seriously about the possibility of leaving the country if the Tories get in again (so much for without a thought for politics!!), so that could be a very transformational conversation. But on a more ordinary level, I’m really excited about the opportunity to ‘reconnect’ and have some time to remember why we enjoy each other!

Here's another one of those funny things. I read your prompt when you sent it through and I thought, oh, that's a shame. I don't have much to say about astrology except that I've never seen much more in it than a series of coincidences and guesswork. But the very next day I met up with some fairly new friends and (without any prompts from me) talk turned quickly to natal charts and star signs. You're not a REAL Leo!  Said my friend Lucy she is also a Leo, but is loud and outgoing and all the things a Leo is supposed to be. You don't even like being the centre of attention. Meanwhile, another friend, Bean, had just had natal charts prepared for all her family as a celebratory gift. I was riled and intrigued so I came back to this. I was especially interested by this quote about Lunar Taureans: They feel with their senses and they are pretty much rooted in their ways. They revel inmaterial comforts--in fact, building a solid and comfortable home and foundation helpsto keep them feeling safe and content. It isn't wise to try to push Lunar Taureans into doing anything, but once they havemade a commitment, they're persevering. There's a steadiness to this position of the Moon that is comforting to those close to them. But the conservative streak in these natives can be maddening to more progressive personalities. They tend to go out of their way to avoid messy or unpredictable situations, crises, and emotional displays. Instead, they focus on creating a reliable and secure life around them. Yep, that's me. Totally failing to find that reliability and security though!! I also realised that I shouldn't be so quick to dismiss this stuff given that I'm so interested in the space between and around us all. Really astrology seems to me to be a bit like theatre all the meaning is in the tension between objects, bodies, matter…

Until i hit my first real heartbreak in my mid twenties, I used to have Keatsian moments of pleasure in nature all the time. I remember standing at the bus stop near my flat in south London and feeling my chest expand and my head lighten just at the sight of the leaves on trees above trembling in the wind. It’s the same feeling when a piece of art really moves you or when you look out of the window of an aeroplane and see clouds and tiny tiny fields below you. I don’t get that feeling so much any more. I think my mum would tell me that was just what happens when you grow up but I’ll never tell Ernest that. Childish wonder. Amazing. The sea still stirs it up in me sometimes but the distractions of everyday life get in the way more often than not. I remember feeling like that about birthday sandwiches too. My dad once took me to the Tate Gallery and afterwards we went to an amazing sandwich shop in Pimlico. This was before the days of Pret A Manger and sandwich shops were not a ‘thing’. I chose the most luxurious thing on the menu, a prawn and avocado sandwich on white bread. I remember exactly how it tasted and felt. The bread was thick and crusty and there was loads of butter and mayonnaise. I had salt and pepper too which seemed like such an extravagance for a sandwich. After that, I asked for prawn and avocado sandwiches for my birthday meal every year. We were usually on our annual family sailing trip for my birthday, so eating these morsels of heaven whilst crammed around a table below deck on an army yacht is my major birthday memory. I have been a foodie ever since!

Aaaaaaah, I am struggling with this one maybe I’m not very good at learning life lessons or maybe my memory is just shot… oh well here goes. I think this will be a work in progress that i will keep revisiting! Before Traction Aha ‘Moment’ What next? Choice points, insight into action, transit, transformation… In the end my mum will always support me Telling my parents I was going through a difficult time and them telling me I should stay quiet about it so as not to embarrass myself (by which they meant them) Everyone is ultimately on their own I’m a daddy’s girl realising the special christmas gift my dad bought me age 14(ish) was the same present he had bought his mistress there is no point looking for or depending on my dad’s approval Everyone experiences life in the same way getting to know my little brother and appreciate his social anxieties some people find the world far more difficult than others sometimes those people are the most interesting ones… Being cautious discovering contemporary art and critical thinking at Art college taking risks this has been a long and slow process! Being a slut Getting to college and realising that I had been projecting other people’s narrow views onto myself up until then Enjoying romantic encounters! I’m not worthy of love Meeting Peter and trying very hard to push him away but he persisted I am in love and enjoy being loved without guilt bringing a baby into the world is so magical Being pregnant/giving birth babies are magical, childbirth is raw and traumatic

I'm sixteen years old, I've woken up in a room with magnolia painted walls. I'm in a single bed with my boyfriend Tim and the room smells of stale alcohol. I don't know where my clothes are. When Tim wakes up he tells me I had been so drunk that I was sick and that he washed my clothes which are now drying in the bathroom. He fetches them. I know I wasn't sick. He goes to play video games with his friends. There are two of them, they laugh when they see me Tim does too. I leave the house quickly. It's a new brick house with a kitchen shop on the ground floor and it's on a roundabout. I don't remember arriving there the previous night so I'm not sure where i am. I don't remember anything from about 10pm. I can't see which way to go so I climb over a low wall and find myself walking along the edge of a dual carriageway. There is no path and it's not very safe but I'm not going back the way I came so I stick it out. Finally I find my way and get back to school. My friends are keen for gossip but I don't know what story to tell them. They are teenage girls and they judge me harshly.

It’s interesting how difficult I’m finding it to respond to these words. I’ve been pondering them all day and my overwhelming response is how lucky I am. All of these ‘A’s are heaped on me by my lovely family (almost) all of the time and I try very hard to give back just as much to them. BUT I have a selfish little nag that perhaps I could be appreciated MORE and that acceptance is a very bloody difficult path that we aren’t always doing the best job of navigating. Less selfishly perhaps, I also slip into self-criticism and wonder if I am as generous with the rest of the world. I’m definitely not. The biggest struggle though is whether I am able to apply these things to myself and I am confident that the answer to that is a resolute no. I think I can add another ‘A' to the mix that I am particularly brilliant at. It’s probably at the heart of why I’m not very good at the others. ANXIETY. Sometimes it makes me a bit overly (obsessively) attentive to myself, but apart from that it makes the other four ‘A's rather fall down. I’d like to make you a model cardboard architecture is my thing i think maybe I will make one. It would be a little space with 8 sides and no doors, but definitely two way mirrors in each wall, and an infinite network of honeycombed spaces coming out from it (I don’t think I’ll manage to model the infinite-ness of it…!). I think that is how I see the structure of the relationships in my life and it doesn’t always allow for affection or allowing. Yep, I better make this model because I’m not sure myself where I’m going with the analogy any more. That’ll do for today I think…

It’s taken me a really long time to know how to respond to this one. There was so much in your prompt but none of it was a question. So I read it over and over again and eventually I figured out what it was that was resonating with me and it comes back to space and the making of it again. I think I was mostly when you said That in fact ‘that this is where it happens’ not ‘in’ us but ‘between’ us. it reminded me of something I wrote about ten years ago. I still love this quote from Diller and Scofidio, because it defined for me why I am so obsessed with the ‘liveness’ of space: [architecture is] everything that happens between one body and another this is further explained by the brilliant Bernard Tschumi Bodies carve all sorts of new and unexpected spaces, through fluid or erratic motions. Architecture, then, is only an organism passively engaged in constant intercourse with users, whose bodies rush against the carefully established rules of architectural thought (Tschumi 2004). Later in the same paper, I wrote this: More than this, architecture can manufacture space into a receptacle for dreams and memories, an external manifestation of our inner beings, a symbol of security. Gaston Bachelard describes the house and the room as psychological diagrams that guide writers and poets in their analysis of intimacy (Bachelard 1994, p38) and Anthony Vidler talks of Poe’s House of Usher as a repository for centuries of memory (Vidler 1994, p18). We can see, therefore that through the ongoing process of human intervention, space can have a history and be experienced in narrative and emotional terms. This ties up so much of the stuff I’ve been saying about touch (and thank you for making me think about this again, because I think it is helping me with my work too!) I feel like the negotiation of the space between one body and another is fraught with emotion and intimacy, so it’s not something I do lightly. In fact it is more fraught if the body i am interacting with is that of someone I care about because there is more history and memory in that space between.

I'm in my late twenties. I'm sat on my bed next to the window. My flat is on the sixteenth floor. The lift all too often has wee in it or is broken but the flat is nice. I'm looking out of the window. Ordinarily I'm scared of heights but there is something about this view that feels wide rather than high. It just goes on for ever and gives me butterflies in my stomach. With the window open I lean out just a little and take comfort from the idea that I have this possible exit if i need it. I imagine stepping out, the air rushing past my face . I imagine that I might slow down and sort of float over the park. It's all very comforting. When I tell my doctor about this later, I narrowly avoid being sectioned.

I’d like to make you another model as a response to this one. It’s one that I’ve been thinking about for a while actually and I’m really looking forward to having the time to make it! That won’t be for a little while though, so I’ll just tell you about it. A few weeks ago, someone asked me what I was working on at the moment and the truth was that I was in a bit of a rut. My confidence was low and I wasn’t happy with any of my recent work. But I felt a bit under pressure to have an idea and the pressure must have kicked my brain into gear because super casually I heard myself tell this person that I was making an new ‘architectural' model, a house that would fit perfectly into the space between my legs. Luckily they didn’t push for details because my moment of inspiration pretty much ended there, but later I realised that this was something worth pursuing. I went back to Gaston Bachelard and started thinking about my crotch as a corner, an architectural entity That most sordid of all havens, the corner, deserves to be examined. and also When we recall the hours we have spent in our corners, we remember above all silence, the silence of our thoughts. 

'It would be a little space with 8 sides and no doors, but definitely two way mirrors in each wall, and an infinite network of honeycombed spaces coming out from it… 'DAY 2 RESPONSE: ConcreteI made a start… it's a bit of a nest really! This is the quickest model I’ve ever made and I really enjoyed the speed. I normally obsess over the details and spend weeks on them, so this was a very happy, healthy exercise! (It’s not finished)In response to your questions about nesting. I think I’m a pretty good nester because I have moved house more than 30 times in my lifetime (I’m 35), so I’ve got it down to a fine art. Actually I find it very therapeutic to pack up a home (lots of lovely cardboard boxes), sort through all our stuff, throw a few things out and reinstall it somewhere new. I don’t get nostalgic about the place I’m leaving. The key for me is unpacking my books and hanging paintings, once that is done I feel at home we don’t travel light unfortunately, so the process can take a while. I find it quite an effort to stay in touch with friends from previous parts of life because I do enjoy the moving on and cutting ties with the past. Over the years, though, I have learned the values of that other sense of home (or nest?) where you are surrounded by a circle of people who are familiar and loved, who you don’t need to work hard to be around, so I do make a conscious effort to maintain those relationships. Nesting is then, I suppose, about creating an environment of familiarity and ease in an otherwise strange and frantic world. The sense of touch is an interesting thing because it feels very intimate to me I’m not much of a hugger outside of my little family. But I rely on my hands such a lot in terms of how i explore materials and spaces and this is so much a part of what I do, so that feels quite intimate too, in a welcome way. I know what every paper type feels like and most paint/varnish finishes, I can recall exactly how the concrete at the Barbican feels in relation to the concrete at the Royal Festival Hall or the stone at Salisbury Cathedral. I prefer that to the feeling of skin! That said, the perfect nest within a nest is a full family cuddle on the sofa at home me, Peter (my husband), Ernest (our son) and Oakley (the dog). Never lasts long, but it’s bliss.

Sometimes this week I have felt a bit like you are reading my mind!! I didn’t read the prompt for this before writing my previous responses and yet that Masters research I told you about on Day 5 was actually about virtuality and the performance of cyberspace. It kicked off a long period of practice when I was working with group of performers online, who I never met until after our collaboration, but with whom I am still good friends. Here’s a paragraph from my research paper which has guided my thinking and practice for many years: As humans, we have a tendency to separate ourselves from technology, seeing it as somehow unnatural and therefore other. But cyberspace is not separate or different to human space. Cyberspace, as imagined by William Gibson, is a concept inspired by the advent of the internet, but not limited to it. In fact, it is more a part of our everyday lives than many of us would imagine. If we look at the linguistic origins of the term cyberspace we can understand it as an abbreviation of cybernetic space, cybernetics being the study of communication and control. We can also think of it as cyborgian space, i. e. a space which is extended (functionally, dimensionally, aesthetically) by the intervention of technology. In this sense, it can be imagined as a space we can actually inhabit on a day-to-day basis, albeit a space which somehow amplifies our ‘normal’ way of being. So then: How would you describe the intimacy and value of your ‘mediated’ relationships, (virtual rather than physical representations and embodiments of yourself/other) through your mobile/i-pad/laptop/desktop/watch/other? I don’t consider these relationships to be ‘mediated’. I consider the relationship to be as ‘real’ and valid whether it is realised in physical or cyber space. Proximal interaction has it’s own barriers and challenges for me I am not brilliant at reading facial expressions/body language and I have auditory processing disorder (a. k. a. cocktail party deafness) which makes it even more difficult to process the information I am receiving in real situations. In virtual environments, I have more space to respond and clearer information to work with I don’t have to work so hard to decipher what is going on. Even without these specific challenges though, I do dispute the idea that social media platforms (etc) prevent valid interaction. As in the quote earlier, I think that these newer methods of communication just extend and augment our communications and capabilities. We are cyborgs and that is wonderful. How do you use it, what social platforms/communication methods to you use, how often, with whom, where and when and why? I use it much less successfully than my younger brother, who in turn is out of date compared to the teenagers he teaches. I can’t even imagine how my son will use these technologies when he is older but I’m sure I will look on in awe and terror! I am not a technophobe but I have my limits and don’t manage to keep up with all the social media the way that some people do. I use Facebook most, instagram and twitter occasionally I have separate personal and professional profiles for all of these. I’m on WhatsApp a lot but snapchat made me feel incredibly old. How do you feel that your use of social media fulfils and enables a sense of ‘connectedness, of belonging, of identification’ with others? I depend on it for all these things! 😃 Seriously though, since we moved out of London and had a baby we are so rarely able to be physically present with so many of our friends, and social media helps to maintain those links. It also acts as a bit of diary for me I find out about so many events (social and work-related) through social media.

Areas to Transform: 1… I would like to transform the speed I rush through life, without feeling guilty for doing less2… Simplicity, i would just like some things to be simple. Life feels very complicated. 3… I really believe that ‘success’ is just a state of mind and that it is maybe as simple as just telling people around you that you are a success and them believing you, but even though I think I know this, I have never yet translated it into my own life. 4… To be free of worrying what other people think of me would be wonderful5… The space between people often feels like a rather solid boundary and I would love to be less aware of it all the time or at least to be able to sort of liquify it so i can move through it more fluently. 6… That childish wonder thing I really miss that. Can I go back and rediscover it? 7… PROCESS not RESULTS I know this is the way forward, but it’s not easy to do…

Disappointments, fears, reality. Being on a boat in the sea… rocking and riding the storm, the ebb and flow.. Being a slut enjoying romantic encounters. I am in love and enjoy being loved! YES! Babies are magical childbirth is raw and traumatic. The raw and traumatic act of birthing anything… a baby… art… oneself… Evolution.

'It would be a little space with 8 sides and no doors, but definitely two way mirrors in each wall, and an infinite network of honeycombed spaces coming out from it… 'Cherry Day 1: Hard lens. Saying ‘Yes’ feeling ‘No’. Total beauty. Insight evolving. Purpose. Honeycombs. Cardboard. Making. Day 2: Little space. Nest. Speed. Making. Moving. Cardboard. Cutting ties. Safety. Hands. Touch. Intimacy. Concrete. Skin. Bliss. Beauty. Rooms within rooms. Strength.

it has been such an opportunity to think about things I normally de-prioritise. ‘So many little windows have opened up. I am going to start that model (the crotch one) this afternoon and I can’t wait’. Mostly I have begun to re-learn ways of finding moments of stillness in my day and I hope I can keep it up because it’s very good for me! I am especially hopeful about my work because I have started thinking about it differently recently and that is definitely related to your interventions. LOVE TO SEE MORE PHOTOS! Love your architectural inspirations and makings and innovative thoughts! 😃 Nagoya Science Museum and Planetarium Aichi, Japan Individual Noticings Alice: would love to see your cardboard architecture thing growing… becoming… sounds magical! :)

A beautiful red haired pink haired Mum yours or you? Taking time to be sure to be true to act when feels right… taking care of you Woman and mother… A rose growing from the undergrowth… beauty and the beast one and same… Anticipation growth and play… Tender tender heart. LOVE.

Cherry: I’d love to see another model. Super casually I heard myself tell this person that I was making an new ‘architectural' model, a house that would fit perfectly into the space between my legs. My crotch as a corner, an architectural entity That most sordid of all havens, the corner, deserves to be examined. This is so exciting – I cannot wait to see this… do you remember that game passing the orange from under one neck to another without dropping it… maybe we could play ‘pass the house’ from crotch to crotch…

June 8th. Sunny Sands. Send. Special. Such. Strawberries Shallots Salad. Sourced. Sustainable. Suppliers. Seafood. Steve. Special. Save. So Some Shop. Space. Space. Sit. Sofa. Squeezes. See! Stress. Sometimes. Sure. Sea! Scheduling Space. Seriously So So Some.

First I just want to say before I read you Day 5 response just how good it is to have you back… I missed you that is so strange after so few days but this process feels so intimate and I care… but maybe it gifted you the time to incubate and reflect before emerging again! 😃 'Space and the making of it again.’ ‘That this is where it happens’ not ‘in’ us but ‘between’ us. I am so obsessed with the ‘liveness’ of space: Oh WOW I love these sharing's below thank you for sharing :) [architecture is] everything that happens between one body and anotherBernard Tschumi Bodies carve all sorts of new and unexpected spaces, through fluid or erratic motions. Architecture, then, is only an organism passively engaged in constant intercourse with users, whose bodies rush against the carefully established rules of architectural thought (Tschumi 2004). More than this, architecture can manufacture space into a receptacle for dreams and memories, an external manifestation of our inner beings, a symbol of security' Gaston Bachelard describes the house and the room as psychological diagrams that guide writers and poets in their analysis of intimacy (Bachelard 1994, p38) Anthony Vidler talks of Poe’s House of Usher as a repository for centuries of memory (Vidler 1994, p18). We can see, therefore that through the ongoing process of human intervention, space can have a history and be experienced in narrative and emotional terms. I feel like the negotiation of the space between one body and another is fraught with emotion and intimacy, so it’s not something I do lightly.

Family love is so FULL and BLOOMING. I LOVE being beside the SEA. My self belief and mental heath are balanced and I’m nurturing myself more. Friends are wonderful. Loving strong unique women. I am learning and making steadily. Mu life is rich. I feel more fulfilled. I love Ernest and Peter. My success is not in my finances but in my friends and family.

Digesting itself. 'or at least to be able to sort of liquify it so I can move through it more fluently.’ your synergy preemptive quote from your response Day 15. Imaginal Discs. Collage as a form of rearranging and juxtoposition. Slices, layers and outlines of life. Hats. Glasses and smiles. And lots and lots of blue air.

Within without. Child hand feather. Rainbows collide. Rubbing out. Looking down. Seeing through. Feather. Pom pom's. Traction. Cog. Wheels turn. Beauty. Doing less. Slowing down. Being some. Simplicity. Zen. Mindful. The art of being alone… FULLFILMENT v SUCCESS inner out processes intrinsic/extrinsic… Porous, fluid, reciprocal membranes, osmosis… Childish wonder. Curiosity. Practice-based research cycle… Iterative processes.

Cherry: My flat is on the sixteenth floor. The lift all too often has wee in it or is broken but the flat is nice. Ordinarily I'm scared of heights but there is something about this view that feels wide rather than high. Flight. Escape. Options. Imagination. I might slow down and sort of float over the park. It's all very comforting.

Meditation. Lifts me! (I give myself permission to go slow…) I am not behind I am in perfect timing. Responding to you is a bit like meditation it gives me a little time and space. Meditation looks like a sunny garden in-between two buildings. Anxiety is one of the biggest drivers in my life. When ‘managed/balanced' it is a motivator! Effective to keep pushing through difficult situations. My friends keep me grounded and my family cocoon me. Peter and Ernest wrap me up in a big cosy blanket and make me feel very very safe… 😃

I love hands! My little boy’s chubby feet! Migrant Camps. Shacks, Tents, Leaking Water, Feeling Afraid For Families (a feeling into space… feeling the other within me charged… empathy… compassion)At ease with the past… but it squeezing my heart ever so gently… anxious about the future… (how can anxiety become excitement…?) Boundaries of touching. Touches of touching. Qualities of touch. Resonance. Energy. Soaring… falling… Marking another. Emotionally Psychologically – shape changing. Some need to ‘fix’ that… The heartache/sting/pain/pleasure/swelling of love. Touching base sharing food. Surprise and changeability. Sitting quietly making and meeting and dwelling with self. Working hands, speaking hands, making hands, touching hands, holding hands… loving hands!

Cherry: Sometimes this week I have felt a bit like you are reading my mind!! Synergy at work! We can also think of it as cyborgian space, i. e. a space which is extended (functionally, dimensionally, aesthetically) by the intervention of technology. In this sense, it can be imagined as a space we can actually inhabit on a day-to-day basis, albeit a space which somehow amplifies our ‘normal’ way of being. Love this quote Cherry – there is reciprocal learning going on between us and I love it! In virtual environments, I have more space to respond and clearer information to work with I don’t have to work so hard to decipher what is going on. We are cyborgs and that is wonderful. For some reasons you have inspired me to look up Bjorks Appbiophilia so I will! I tried to see the show in December 2016 and missed it…

Coincidences and Guesswork life. Avoid messy or unpredictable situations, crises, and emotional displays. Seek a reliable and secure life. 'I also realised that I shouldn't be so quick to dismiss this stuff given that I'm so interested in the space between and around us all. ’Liminal space… Astrology a bit like theatre all the meaning is in the tension between objects, bodies, matter… Actants actant networks actors/elements/on a stage.

I remember standing at the bus stop near my flat in south London and feeling my chest expand and my head lighten just at the sight of the leaves on trees above trembling in the wind. I don’t get that feeling so much any more. Childish wonder. Amazing. A prawn and avocado sandwich on white bread. I remember exactly how it tasted and felt. Eating these morsels of heaven whilst crammed around a table below deck on an army yacht is my major birthday memory. I want to come and ‘do your garden up together’, in a day! Make it your sanctuary… can we? And then can we make and eat a prawn and avocado sandwich on white crusty bread with lots of mayo and play tea parties under a blanket den in the garden as though ‘below deck’ with Ernest before running down to the sea and feeding our crusts to errant seagulls?… 😃 Wonderful. I'm in! Cx

Cherry: I don't know where my clothes are. When Tim wakes up he tells me I had been so drunk that I was sick and that he washed my clothes which are now drying in the bathroom. I know I wasn't sick. It's a new brick house with a kitchen shop on the ground floor and it's on a roundabout. I can't see which way to go so I climb over a low wall and find myself walking along the edge of a dual carriageway. Ouch. That really impacts and hurts. I want to help you and hold your hand and walk the dual carriageway together.