THE WALK I go with the dog on our nearest walk. Right now it is at its greenest with all the leaves out on the trees. We are lucky to live near trees with a wide green space beyond a wooded valley. It is here that we walk most days and it is ever changing. Each day is different. Often we are gifted by the trees, pine cones, conkers, burnished leaves, snapped off daffodils needing rescue, lost hockey balls the list goes on. Yesterday (Day 11) the gift was two fallen white candelabra blossoms from the mighty horse chestnuts. It was dusk as I climb up from the valley bottom. No-one about just the dog and I. A beautiful golden light as the sun gets low in the west. We make for the place I try to be whenever I come here especially in the mornings, so I can greet the day. It is the smooth stump of an Old chestnut which has been cut down since we came to live here, it has a still living neighbour- right now so densely leafy that it causes me to think there must be as many leaves on it as there are stars in the sky. This is my destination and my turning point. Standing on the trunk I greet the directions : East, South, West, North- only this time, because it is the end of the day I choose to reverse the order and begin with West. This is a new ritual that I love to do it is from Native American tradition and the full ceremony encompasses 7 directions- Above, Below and Within are part of it. Each direction holding its own significance. Insert audio recording here -please Alice!! Morning Ceremony lee Nitsch. I return home feeling complete. FIRST BORNS Sunday 20th May 1973 8th August 1948 It is a beautiful day, I wake early with a sense of excitement It is muggy summer in London It is the due date for our baby My parents come over I am aware of a low deep pain in my core We spend a happy day-out in the garden Lunching The pain intensifies We decide it is time to set off Driving in convoy we arrive in Leamington Spa There is a Church Parade through the town Boy scouts are marching The brass band plays Robert E Lee Da dah dah da dadda There are shorter intervals between pains Mother Mary takes herself to a matinee Chris, the young husband, leaps from the car never one to miss an opportunity Like a character from a British Comedy film, He tells the head of the procession My wife is in Labour-please let us pass It falls on deaf ears It is Sunday by the time we reach the red brick Hospital Mary is in Middlesex Hospital- red brick Everyone is feeling a in a bit of a panic But it is Sunday There is only a skeleton staff A routine must be followed Although I am by now in stage two of Labour I am shaved given a enema Pethadine My parents disappear A very bad tempered Sister is in charge A very bad-tempered Sister is in charge Chris by some miracle is allowed to stay She offers orange juice-it is declined Fortified throughout by an through reading of Reg is not with her Erna Wright The New Childbirth Mary has not read any birthing books For which many thanks I think she is alone except for the staff I get through to the final stage of Labour The bit in British Comedy films where Everyone yells at the mother to PUSH! By this time, it has been 12 hours. I have run out of stamina The bad tempered sister puts me in stirrups She orders a Junior Doctor to do an Episiotomy He goes green at the gills He is very young-it is his first baby too The afternoon draws on Suddenly I know the meaning of Screaming like a stuck pig Junior cuts into me without giving pain relief this does the trick As all at once our first born is here All at once Reg and Mary's first born arrives We are amazed to have a daughter They are amazed to have a daughter She is 7lbs 8oz and perfect in every way We will call her Alice Charlotte They call her Diana Mary Stitches in stirrups No pain relief as Junior does Continuous stitches, over, under-The Midwife, at home, tells me This is not correctI still bear the scars The euphoria carries us though It must have been traumatic as Reg says The night is like a pethadine induced trip Lets just have one and spoil her to death I am longing to hold my baby I am longing to see my mother She comes the next day It is so good to see her I return home to 9 days bed rest Mary goes home to be cared for by We begin to bond with Alice Ida, my Grandmother, she cares for me too I vow to avoid hospitals at all costs What followed: Alice has 3 sisters. The first Becky born on the domino system in Suffolk. Mary and Reg did only have one child This was a midwife led method where the delivery onlyt akes place in hospital with the known midwife managing it. A boy, Peter, was a late miscarriage Becky was born in record time- about 4 hours. Emily and Elizabeth were both born at home. Leamington Hospital is raised to the ground and on the same site new Warwick Hospital is built. All shining glass and steel. It is here that my father is brought when he has a massive stroke on 23rd May 2009. IT IS A SUNDAY. There is only a skeleton staff on duty kindly, experienced people BUT a scanner is not available. Reg dies on the 24th after midnight. We manage to be there 36 years on. The Grandfather dies on the same patch of earth where his first Grandchild had been born. First born I have a daughter, whose life is already separate from mine, whose will already follows its own directions, and who has quickly corrected my woolly preconceptions of her by being something remorselessly different. She is the child of herself and will be what she is. I am merely the keeper of her temporary helplessness Laurie Lee 1963

Day 21 Back pack commentary to go with still life photos. Turquoise blue and the scent of violets: memories of Constance Glyn Jones an inspirational Artist and Teacher. Indian Elephant, photo and silver mug representing the wisdom of longevity, memory, and honouring the ancestors. My Grandmother's laugh. Family circle NEST. Scarf made by a daughter, belonging to husband Christopher. Wedding photo 1969 and houster mouse. Mouse was one Christmas present from Chris at the time of us being as poor as church mice. Plaque summing up the nature of our family. All about love. Outdoor things: practical items for growing things and taking the dogs out. Plants and animals. The roses represent gardens AND my beautiful family. They are Christopher Rose (yellow), Miss Alice (soft pink), Rebecca (deep pink bud), Sister Elizabeth (bright pink) Emily Rose has no matching rose except her second name. Pile of books: Female Wisdom from across the Atlantic- ideas I live by. Thats nearly it Alice! Hope to see you later. Mum xxxx Let me know you've got this and the photos please. A week or so later! On comparing notes with another TTTer I realise that I have left out the who and where to share with bit. The person who came most strongly to me was my mother as I would love to see her response to things that I have selected most of them she would not know of as they appertain to my life since her death. She died at 69, the age I will reach this year, and it would be lovely to share with her in a similar way to the sharing that is going on between daughter Alice and myself now. The place would be in a box in an old theatre, smell of greasepaint in the air and the audience expectant below us. Then on a re-read I see it should be someone famous in which case it would be John Keats- on reading his letters then his poems and on visiting the house where he lived in Hampstead, followed by several biographies- I fell in love! It would be so lovely to spend sometime with this sensitive, gifted young man who never knew of his fame. Where to meet? In a bluebell wood at dusk when the nightingales are singing- what could be more magical?

Day 1. Response. Diana. Day 2: Response. Nests Day 2. Response. Diana. Day 3. Transformational Encounters. Touch. To ‘handle or feel gently usually with the intent to understand or appreciate… to meet without overlapping or penetrating…’. Day 4 Response. Day 5: Response. Day 6: Response Day 7: Response Day 8: Response. Day 9: Response Day 10: Response Day 11: Response Day 12: Response Day 13: Response Day 14 & 15 Additional Response Day 15: Response Day 16: Response. Crysalis… (add artwork photo) Day 17: Response Day 18: Response. Humming Birds/ Figure of 8 etc. what pr Day 19: Response Observations on finished Chart. Day 20: Response Day 21: Response Back pack commentary to go with still life photos. Day 22: Response Review FACT

I invite you to complete the following sentences as you feel moved to: I never touch I can't think of anything I never touch… I like to touch new born babies heads, feet and hands… I am completely in touch with my inner life… I have felt touched by the words of poets, silly love songs and soaring music… I wish I had touched a lion… I like being touched on the hand… I swear I never touched the pretend, plastic, lipstick stolen from Woolworths in 1959… I left a mark on the lives of friends… I am touched every time I hear a black bird sing… I like to touch base by journaling each morning… I like to touch base with old friends with a glass of wine… The past touches me like magic finger just when I'm not expecting it… How much am I in touch with me? A lot, but it is work in progress- it will be until the end of this life. Can I see your hands? Yes but I don't know how to share them with you right now! Images: Here are mine…

Dear Alice, Trying out the separate note thing. Feeling able to do this as I have short response to this task. I believe in Spontaneous Soup subtitle Waste not Want not Soup! Explanation: I like to make soup from whatever can be found in fridge, store cupboard or garden. This has served me well throughout family life and any special soups I have done are not nearly as good. Sometimes not only the ingredients are found but sometimes the soup is made in response to a particular situation. It is a tradition that the Jewish mother heals family difficulties with Chicken Soup. Perhaps I have inherited this instinct from my Jewish forebears but on several occasions I have found it handy- most people respond to being fed some comforting soup when things are tense! Last time I did this was in Canberra when there was some tension over high grocery bills (it is expensive down under) so I set to concocting a soup out of found ingredients, feeding us all at no extra expense and restoring harmony round the family table. All this is a long winded way of saying that I will make soup, but it will come about without special planning, clothes, invitations etc. I will report back on how and when and who ate it and if it resulted in any sort of transformation- watch this space! Love Mum xxx

Dear Al, Went in to do my add on method of responding for Day 15 but it didn'tallow me to write. So will do brief responses here and hope you cantransfer them. Firstly day 14. This was the one I could not really say too much about. If you recall I was astounded by your Natal charts but lack theknowledge to draw many conclusions from mine. (I have sent it on toAngie to see if she can enlighten no response as yet). I do obsverse how very differnt mine looks to yours and to Madison's(which I had done by Angie for her 1st Birthday). Also the bit about myparents being born on 5th and 7th August. The parts in your reading that talk about your relationships to a fatherfigure would seem to relate to me -especially as more fully disclosed bythese writings, rather than you. Do you agree? That's about it for Day 14 though I do appreciate the diagrams andBjork. Dad just got home so I will leave Day 15 to later. N. B. this tookalot of thinking about so needed the days off to let it begin to settle. Back later love Mum xxxx

Magpie Charm : English TraditionalOne for sorrow hardly a day passes when I don't think of you Two for joy they stand and hold each other for a moment Three for a girl Red wellies. Rain Mac. Pom poms. Finger knitting. Four for a boya boy and a girl on a parapet Five for silver being inside a rain drop Six for gold I can see yellow corn Seven for a secret never to be told the owner of the cafe sexually abused me Eight for a wish you could just listen but not make any judgements Nine for a kiss our first kiss, your tongue thrusting Ten for a surprise you must not misstoes like snowflakes and drops of evaporated milk Eleven for health I was drawn to it but at the same time I was sick Twelve for wealth men in dark glasses on high stools behind counters Thirteen beware its the devil himself This one will not be on line for obvious reasons. Mum xxx

Elder woman: Considering the feminine in the Older Woman- a list of viewpoints, followed by some comments. Faded beauty-ugliness-repellent sweet, lavender scented old ladies with white hair-harmless Miss Marple underneathJealous interfering the mother-in-law Nana helpful, caring watching over the childrenPantomime Dames Independent, silver foxes, well preserved wealthy womenMadames in brothels Tarts with heartsWitches to be feared Powerful Goddesses like Kali (a destroyer)to be respectedUseless, not needed in society Essential in holding a family together- grandma gluesorceress Sybil-a seerInfertile, past it passing on skills and wisdom to the next generation, useful All but a few of these descriptions indicate power of some sort. Even the more demeaning ones carry power and influence. So much so, that the Panto Dame is a classic case of a man dressing up to both poke fun at and enjoy the force of the female. Yet there are few terms to denote respect for the Elder woman in the way that men are referred to as Sages, Master or Guru. Mistress has an utterly different connotation and a Witch is seen in an entirely different light from a Wizard. There is no Mother Christmas only Mother Goose! Such side lining-could it be due to fear of the elder feminine power ? Denial by means of not acknowledging it? I think this is so. There have been notable exceptions, but even Queen Elizabeth 1 begins her most famous speech by saying I have the body of a weak and feeble woman yet I have the heart and Stomach of a King! Women in Western Society have colluded in this conspiring, we have been afraid of our own power. So we play the roles of perfect wife and mother or career woman only to find ourselves lacking, once the time for these roles is over. The emphasis on the external has been part of the reason. So much time is spent on the look at my tits thing, lets Botox the wrinkles, what lovely cup cakes I make, that we bury our earned and learned wisdom in this trivia. Only lately has there been a re-evaluation of the role of the Elder women in society in the west with women looking again at how many tribal societies were run and deciding to not fade away. Healthy and stronger for longer we are claiming greater equality with men and being visible in both public and private life. This brings us to the crux: to uphold the feminine traits of intuition, inner knowing, nurturing, softness, nurturing all the things that make up our power, without sacrificing them to be more evident in what is still a male orientated world.

Its working! 7 Areas for Transformation Much resistance has been encountered on this task. Reasons being I have done such things before and NOT achieved them which results in feelings of greater dissatisfaction than before. Hence my reluctance. What is worse it is more challenging to attempt at 68 than at 38! The added uncertainty of just how many of one's 9 cat years has one already used up? It might be the last chance to go for it. A sense of urgency does not make it any easier. Here is my present list- not meant to be read in any particular order: Open and activate my voice whilst listening with both ears Make enabling others less disabling for myselfBe more spontaneous Trust my intuition moreShed the negativity of some past experiences (forgiveness?) Keep the sketch books, heart and the mind openRemain kind and non judgemental towards others and oneself A summary: Make the present moment the most wonderful moment of your life Thich Nhat Hanh I am thinking these are all rather big steps and perhaps that is why I have stumbled before. Perhaps each needs a step ladder of little rungs to reach? I am paying attention to grab on to these rungs when they present themselves.

Humming Birds From Medicine Cards by Jamie Sams and David Carson: It is said that hummingbird conjures love as no other medicine does, and that Hummingbird feathers open the heart. Without an open and loving heart, you can never taste the nectar and pure bliss of life… If Hummingbird is your personal medicine, you love life and its joys. Your presence brings joy to others. You join people together in relationships which brings out the best in them. …Beauty is the target, and Hummingbird's mission is to spread joy or be destroyed. Hummingbird dies quickly if caged, caught or imprisoned it is a delight to have pulled this card as the first of my 7 totems. (i have a picture to insert here)Now to consider your questions: What is your lift? Like hummingbird- Sunshine! Growing plants, babies, children. Otherwise music, theatre, film, poetry, books of all sorts, and sharing time with friends and family. To a lesser degree shopping especially finding treasures in charity shops-seeking Visiting new places. Searching for nectar from all these sources. being near the sea. What is your drag? Grey skies, too much rain. Snow except for looking at. Being confined to the house. House work. Being ill fortunately I have been blessed with good health, as I can be very impatient with illness in myself or others. A stoical patient but NOT a good nurse! Being obliged to consider money. Right now as I write, Politics national and world wide. Some people, especially those who moan or have very small horizons unless they have deprived backgrounds. Worst of all unkindness. What is your thrust? Creativity-having the time to shape things- pictures, prints, gardens, cooking etc. etc. Strong protective feelings towards the family- a compulsion to meet their needs. What grounds you? Literally the ground: walking upon it, planting in it, having its support while I do yoga asanas or sit in a circle within a tipi with other women. My marriage and relationship with my husband. Morning pages- journalling each morningThe grandchildrenThe dogs How do you keep afloat in flight? By being in close contact with all those listed immediately above, grounding things which paradoxically keep me airborne. Plus having a treat in store. To quote an old friend all one needs to be up is Health, someone to love and something to look forward to. Being ON MY OWN for some time each day-this gives me time to be creative, think, meditate or simply potter. Not forgetting Radios 3 and 4 and plenty of cups of tea and warm baths- preferably all 3 together. T.V. informing, entertaining and educating. What propels you forward? Some anger at the unkindness, injustice, cruelty and disrespect for the planet and fellow beings shown by others. All the expectations and positives already mentioned plus CURIOSITY. I like to explore and learn more about, people, places, ideas. Each day surprises me with new experiences. Adaptability and Inner ResourcesI am adaptable. My childhood taught me this in so many ways. Always moving and going to different schools (7) it was a case of sink or swim. Being an only child is good for the imagination and so I can enjoy and use this gift. Enduring boarding school left me pragmatic I can deal with most things as they come along. Conversely, the restless youth has resulted in a need to feel settled -see grounding- in love and place. Yet the boarding school experience has left me with a dislike of having my freedom curtailed and the above need to be by myself now and then. My husband says I am a pragmatist to his fuss pot! Frugality-this is a double edged sword, meaning carefulness OR fear of scarcity. Overall, it useful as it ensures we are not in debt and have enough. I have found that I don't panic in difficult situations, even if I am afraid. A Spiritual seeker- I am still exploring. Access BaggageNo clear answer to this- lost in transit! I do have a deal of baggage from the past but not really any regrets. I have been able to throw off the shackles of a traditional C of E upbringing. No longer believing in a patriarchal God. I am open to different ways of looking at things if a little shy to admitting to this in certain company! The Figure 8To round this off, I quote Jamie Sams again, this time from 13 original Clan Mothers Talks with RelationsThis Clan Mother discovers how to commune with the trees by standing with her legs wide, her arms raised above. She hears the voice of an ancient Redwood. It pointed out to her that with her arms arched upward, her body created two circles. The circles formed a figure eight. The upper circle met the lower circle in her heart, with the upper one encircling the Sky Nation and the lower one connecting her to the center of the Earth Mother. It was as if she were standing on top of one circle and holding another above her, using her body as a cross-connection between the two. These are the two Medicine Wheels of life,  Redwood said. the human beings, like the Tree People, have the ability to be the balance between earth and sky… Meeting in the heart, both Medicine wheels show that heaven and earth, the spiritual and the tangible, are equal and are one… when the heart is open, all creation can be accessed and understood. & /6/17 A further Image: a disturbing oneFrieda Khalo self portrait with monkey and dead Hummingbird necklace. It is in your book Alice, and I wish I had not seen it really. The text says the hummingbird is also important in Mexican beliefs.

4th April 1990 Tomorrow is my parent's Anniversary. They will have been married for 43 years. My mother is in hospital. We saw her last weekend. She was talking about performing a theatrical monologue when she gets out- she is learning the words. During our visit, two of the children get in the hospital lift before we do. The door closes on them and they are sent down to morgue level. We find this funny. It is the middle of a working week now, with us all getting on with our day jobs. My father in Warwickshire. The rest of us at educational establishments in Leicestershire. I find myself in a run down Youth Centre in a market town. The place was put up in a rush of enthusiasm during the 60s and left to slowly decline ever since. I am attempting to engage a group of young mothers in Communication Skills as part of an Outreach Initiative. It is hard going. We have had our instant coffee and the babies and toddlers are being looked after. A flourescent light flickers overhead, the white ceiling tiles look ready to fall on us. We can hear the sound of cars driving by outside. I wonder what I am doing here. I suspect the other women are thinking the same. Then a colleague from the next door college rushes in with a message for me. Saved. What a relief! I am to ring the hospital. Can I get there as soon as possible? No I can't. I have to wind up the group, get home, sort out transport, find child-care, travel the 50 plus miles to the hospital and arrange to meet my father. By the time we get there my mother has been dead for a couple of hours. Both of us have been elsewhere, at a distance, hard to track down- neither of us where we should have been. April is the cruellest month, breeding Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing memory and desire, stirring Dull roots with spring rain. T. S. Eliot The Wasteland

Nesting takes place all the time, everyday in one way or another. My bed is an obvious nesting place where I go to roost and like to remain in for as long as I can as the day begins. Warm, secure and comfortable. We round our days with these times in our nests. As a child dens were made whenever time and materials were available. On bomb sites, beaches, in empty boats, under beds, behind clothes horses, and so on. My grandchildren do the same but they do not have the liberty to roam, so they are mostly limited to safe places like gardens and use cushions or ready made Wendy houses instead. This limits their scope and need for adventure away from adult supervision. I feel very fortunate to have had the freedom of a 50's childhood when scope to explore was unlimited, as long as one retuned in time for tea! In my childhood, Teddies inhabited miniture worlds and a small velvet piglet came most places with me in a pocket too. I still have it! Later, as home-makers, nest making took on even more significance-playtime now over and the serious business of altering houses and making them ones own… adding value, taking up many resources, thought and energy. Putting a stamp on a house. This continues and extends to the creation of gardens. Very essential to me is this engagement with plants, the soil in the outside world. Because the natural world is unpredictable, creating a garden can provide excitement whilst at the same time being a sanctuary- safe but open to possibilities/change. Gardens, houses and nests in nature are on a large schale yet the concept of a nest is of a small, intimate thing. So within these larger spaces, corners are claimed, little scenes are set up. Nest is often used as a metaphor for the female intimate parts-which I think is very appropriate. Waxed mounts of venus seem to be an alien, modern, idea- somehow making womanliness become childlike again. The link to fertility and nurture is signalled by the soft, intimate, warmth of the female anatomy. The womb is a nest in which the human eggs can grow into babies. Fundamental. Other random thoughts on nests: Nests are usually round. This is a far more sympathetic shape for people to live in. In facilitates communication as in Iron Age Roundhouses, Tipis, Igloos, African huts etc. Rectangles encourage confrontation, think Parliament or hierarchy think churches. Gorillas and orangutangs build nightly nests up trees from leaves. They are our closest cousins. Some birds decorate their nests to attract mates- usually the male bird. Insects live co-operatively in nests, thinks bees and ants. Thats all as I must retire to my own nest as it is 11: 15 xxx Mum xxx Looking forward to later… meanwhile more nests Baths are wet, warm nesting places. Like a mermaid in sea-weed She dreams awake, trembling in her soft, chilly nest John Keats Can you include the picture of our brass bed in the material? Mum xxx Join Clare house. The Thrushes Nest. So may Birds Nest. Dedication to Emily. Robins Nest. Yellow Hammers Nest. Moorhen. Wagtail. Nightingale. Mum Watering the Garden.

Dear Al, Unexpectedly home tonight so will send a reply now. May well send in 2 messages as it has been known for me to lose long screeds by pressing the wrong button! Here goes. Firstly, I have recently been discussing and thinking about another collection of A's. They are: Awareness Acceptance Action These are pretty applicable to most things encountered in life and onconsidering them I understand that there is often a big gap (longprocess) between each of them. Also that Action can sometimes be doing nothing or letting things be. So after that preamble I'll turn to Richo's A's and look at them in thelight of relationships as you suggest. Attention- this is indeed different from Awareness (which I prefer) as it implies getting noticed, or drawing attention to oneself. When youthful this tends to be easy unless one is shy. Beauty and being physically alluring make attracting a mate the natural thing to do. Hand in hand, with this is the desire to be noticed in education and later on a career path. Personally, this has been true for me as a young woman. I have found that as a woman of my generation, there has been a falling off in the getting attention department as one ages. Motherhood, largely without wider support, meant trimming one's sails and opting for a role which fits with family life. Once off the main path, one has to be very determined and energetic to get promotion or go for new initiatives. I have found myself too permanently distracted by family demands to have ever had that energy. Once the aging process is well underway, invisibility sets in and the only way to be really noticed is by getting nicely eccentric or needy! Acceptance: Here we are in the same territory as the above Triple A s. This is a good word but very difficult to achieve. In relation to Attention, I guess it means being contented with the situation/relationships one finds oneself in. It often implies compromise and adjusting or shifting one's expectations. I have done this not out of selflessness (although children DO have this effect) but more out of pragmatism. Appreciation: This is the up-side of Acceptance- one becomes aware ofthe more subtle aspects of loving and being involved with family, and toa lesser degree, friends. It becomes possible to weigh the qualities of people with their shortcomings; their strengths with their failing… unearthing unexpected depths in others. Very exciting and far away from the judgemental sureness of the youthful self. This leads on to Affection: Bringing up children helps us to learn that everyone from the very first second of life is unique. Part of one's own growing would seem to befeeling love for the majority of fellow humans, especially for those in one's immediate circle. N.B. this circle can change, expand, decrease according to shifting life situations. Hoping this is not coming across as too pompous! Wanted to include this quote from Mary Anne Evans (i.e. George Eliot). A friend is one to whom one may pour out the contents of one's heart, chaff and grain together, knowing that gentle hands will take and sift it. Keep what is worth keeping and with a breath of kindness blow the rest away Affection meets Allowing; Once a genuine and kind understanding is achieved between people it is possible (most of the time) to allow them to be themselves. Not to try to unduly control them, or mould them to one's will-very tempting with children- but to allow them the freedom to walk their own road. Another, pop song, quote If you love someone set them free This is of course very much easier said than done. Something I am still working on in my close relationships- the more onecares for someone the harder it is not to interfere. Very recently I have come into contact with Native American teachings and they are very strong on letting each person take responsibility so they may walk their own road. One specific teaching is about not carrying but standing beside another. I think that is enough this time although there is a great deal more I could write about the secondary questions. Not been that specific but rather general about my own experiences. Perhaps further days will do this. Don't expect such a wordy offering each time but do be preparedfor more cliches! With love Mum xxx

Oh good this a quick one for me to answer. In response to the question how would you describe your relationship with social communications media my answer is RUBBISH. I have very little engagement with any of it. This is undoubtedly a generational thing as I find I have very little interest in getting involved with the technology. Admittedly there are some things I would like to be able to do in connection with sharing and using images but otherwise I do not have the motivation to acquire the skills needed. From observations of others involved in Facebook I'm not wishing to be part of this- generating problems and misunderstandings. It is rather annoying that it is becoming a bit of a Monopoly with event information sent out by this means only. I do marvel how anyone has enough time in the day to spend on it socially. Clearly my attitude is that nothing can match face to face human interaction. without the nuances of gesture, intonation, pause and just the sharing of atmosphere I do not believe meaningful inter human communication can take place. So says the old fogey! Return of the Old Fogey just to add that the web has tremendous potential for good: Linking people world wide, as a tool for educating and aiding people no matter their circumstances. A barrier breaker- could be a peace maker too.

To begin with a clarification- the Native American Indian notion of not carrying but standing beside is only recent to me, not them! I heard it on a recording of Rocking Bear a wise elder. So much to consider on this one. I'm finding it easier to think of detachment. Part 1 HeadThe closeness researched by Bowlby and Lorenz confirms the subjective knowledge held by most mothers. as in the Senegal clip it is natural to have one's children at the breast, near one during family activities and for adults and child to embrace this sense of belonging. However, there comes a time as it says in the Bible to put away childish things to create a distance between parent and child in order for the young person to become their own person. This breaking away is most painfully experienced post adolescence during the teen age years. However, it is a two way process the parent needs to allow and let go. As I have found both as a child, and a mother, this process is less than easy! This would seem to be even more difficult in modern western societies. There are few traditional rites of passage ceremonies for the young people whist financial concerns mean it is not so easy to fly the nest and set up on one's own. In what would seem an enlightened development, there has been a softening in parenting since the old Victorian extremes of feral, poor children having to fend for themselves or the Children should be seen and not heard wealthier classes. Now we are very involved with our children we tend to share their cares as well as supporting them practically and emotionally. Consequently, it is very difficult to come by the necessary distance between to allow one another to continue maturing. As parents are still working on creating this space. We love to be a close family still and to be a source of strength for one another but sometimes it is restrictive. In an effort to disentangle myself from being too emotionally involved with my daughters during their stormier years, I sought out ways of re-focusing. After all propping up another grown person is not really respecting that other's autonomy. Yoga was when I became fully aware of the idea of detachment . A cold sounding word but it is about being self-balanced and therefore more able to stand strong beside another-not swept along in a tide of emotions one can do little about. Much of the above can be applied to friendships also. Very often in the joy of discovering a new friend, or lover, there is a desire to see and be with the other person as much as possible. Obviously there are degrees to this according to the intensity of the relationship. Yet whatever the degree, there comes a time to ease off or risk becoming a symbiotic pairing with little individual growing space available. Sometimes, a friendship is lost as each person pursues their own paths, sometimes friends can come together again, changed but essentially the same, sometimes room is made for a new friend while another disappears. One of my good friends once talked about this as the ebb and flow of friendship. Part 2 HeartThis is written some days later on reflection I think detachment is in reality pretty unobtainable where love is involved. It is never entirely possible to be free of those you have loved, they call to you from the past and little shards of even lost friendships will crop up to drag up emotions good or bad. Nor is it desirable to close the heart because in order to be fully alive the heart needs to remain open. That is about it for today- sorry it is a bit of an essay! Confirm that you have got it-love Mum xxx

Dear Al, 10/6/17 Re doing day 13: please let me know if you have got it. Having mastered making new notes now found I haven't and so must revert to original method. attempting another table hope it does not get lost or messed up this timeBeforeTractionAh Ha ! CommentInnocence /unknowingSeeing ants whilst lying on a rug out in the garden- pre crawling ageAwareness of a whole outer world to explorestill observing and still exploringWords are funAbout age 3 when trying out rhyming words I say bugger. I provoke a reaction and get into trouble. words are powerfulone has to be careful about what one says and to whomI can choose to do what I likeAt 5 I run away from school to cross several main roads to return homeI am not free to to do what I like one has to endure certain experiencesI'm just one of the girls Acting in a school play and feeling a command of the stage and of the audienceI am an individual with powerful giftsSometimes it is not possible to make the most of one's talentsThe world is rationalon the first date with my future husband, I have a vision. In a totally non auspicious circumstances (JCR bar) I see our whole future together flashing before me. There is a visionary, intuitive side to living + time is not only linear. Reader I married him I am a girlCarrying, bearing and feeding a child I am a woman Repeat x 3I am steadfast, adaptable- a coper whilst 8 months pregnant with my 2nd child I am publicly reduced to incontrollable sobbing as author Penelope Lively reads the final chapter of The Peppermint Pig. It concerns the return of an absent father- the author and I both had a naval officer father. I have been deeply effected by the frequent absences of my father. my coping skills are superficial. Work hard to recover my abilities to manage life in order to bring up a large familyMy father is a kind and loving manMy father finds an alternative ready made family rejecting his sick wife and my own family in the processMy father is unkind and no longer loving to usMore hard work to rebuild and forgive- still not accomplished. Once people have died they have little influence on the material worldA legacy from my Grandmother which would have gone to my mother had she not pre deceased her own mother, comes to me on my birthdayThere is more going on spiritually than is visible to the eyeAn understanding that spiritual influences are present after deathWe are together foreverHusband Chris has a heart attack on Christmas evening 2012One of us will die before the other- at any timeMore conscious of mortalityChanging externals does not alter the inner personLeaving the security of being settled in one place for 29 yearsChange is not to be fearedFresh fields are proving to be stimulating

Writing on here Alice as uncertain exactly how to do a separate entry and get it to you. Let me know if you get this. Lovely just having you and I time for the first time in a VERY LONG WHILE. x mumWomb thoughts. Firstly, not finding time to get into a sufficiently back to the womb like state now so my reply will be a bit unwholistic. I have two images to share which perhaps you can add at some later date? Womb Space -ways to re connect. Mediation: this can help one attain this original space of non identity in the worldly sense whilst approaching authentic knowing of the constant self. This must be akin to being within the safe place of the mother's womb. No need to strive for food, warmth, shelter or security with just the company of another's heartbeat and a gradual, growing awareness of an exciting world out there. Similar states of awareness can be reached through music or when engaged in a timeless activity like attending to growing, living, things, swimming or creating a picture, or making bread. One reason why people probably take drugs or drink is to try to attain a similar freedom from the worldly self but I believe this is to blot out rather than to become aware. A mistaken path way. Womb Space -what it containsHindu notion of the PURUSA. pronounced Purusha: During a long engagement with Hindu thought through yoga, I have become aware of this concept which describes a certain part of the self which remains like a little light within through many rebirths. Two yogi friends add that it is the opposite of prakrti which is all matter. So purusa is what isn't matter in the world, therefore it could be defined as spirit it translates as the dweller in the city. The dweller is the spirit of the child, the city is the physical vessel of the womb. In Christian terms it is best expressed as the Immortal Soul. If one believes in re incarnation, which I do, it is the pure seed of the person which passes from lifetime to lifetime until it is enlightened enough to transcend the earthly world. It is present, each time, within the mother's shielding womb. Carrying: personal experienceOf course as the mother of four children and the Grandmother of nine Grandchildren all born by the four daughters, my knowledge of being a carrier is very deep. The experience of being pregnant is very powerful and the intuitive link with the growing child within oneself is elemental. Not all women seem to feel this, I was surprised to discover. In one conversation with a fellow pregnant woman I recall her saying It's alright for you, you feel like the Queen of the May- I feel like Dracula's mother! It is true I did feel mother earth like so perhaps that is why I had so many babies! This intensity was apparent, much to my amazement, when my daughters were carrying their babies. When there was a danger of miscarrying or termination and when there was a still birth, the pull with that unborn soul was very urgent and strong within me too. From the moment one feels a butterfly flutter from the growing fetus, the connection with the unborn swells as the belly grows. The burden of late pregnancy, the heaviness, the slowness the sleepless nights means the transition between the child being within, to the separation of childbirth, is a process of both relief and sorrow. Drum MedicineEver since the dawn of time, there have been drums. We respond to, and need to hear the rhythm that must link us back to that time we all shared a heartbeat in our mother's womb. Apart from screams, grunts, yelps or moans, incidentally all these are present in Labour, the pounding of a drum is the most basic form of non verbal communication. During this past year, I have had the shared experience of making my own drum from animal (reindeer) hide and wood (birch). On writing this, I am starting to understand why it has become a powerful medicine object to me. A group of women, worked outside to fashion their drums out of these natural materials. It was hard work, stretching and cutting the hides, encouraging one another and remaining mindful while we carried out these practical tasks. The taut skins, the encircling wood, the sinews holding the drums together are very womb like and we were not supposed to play them, except with our hands, for 9 months. At the end of this time we met together to birth our drums by making beaters ( sticks, wool and leather) and by playing and naming our drums together for the first time. I hope this reaches you Alice as I can't write it again! Later add on (22/5/17) Drum beat, Heart beatA child swells underneathSkin as taut as a drumBlood pulse beatingTwo hearts in rhythmBeat as oneHoof beats and foot stepsSkin as taut as a drumForests, hills and plainssinging the worldThey are oneAnimal sinews bindSkin as taut as a drumblood ties linkingSun, stars and moonBeat as oneA birch wood circleSkin as taut as a drumThe womb enclosingMother and infantThey are oneHeart beat, drum beatSkin as taut as a drumSecret and strongRed womb enclosesEver one

Day 20An account of an interview. Another TTT participant and I arrange to meet for lunch. I had assumed that we could tick todays box for each other. We did so eventually, but it turned out to be an example of unclear communication as she had not taken in the task for Day 20 so it was not until half way through lunch that we were actually on the same page. Prior to that, she had been really mystified by my assurances of discretion as I got ready to ask her about something hidden that had come up obliquely last time we met. So it was ironic that our exchanges began with a misunderstanding. As it turned out the hidden thing was disclosed almost as a throw away as we set to in using an writing exercise as a communication tool. Writing without a ParachuteThis is the name of the exercise. it has to take place in a neutral place, in a cafe or similar and it is timed. Both people have to write non stop on agreed topic for 10 minutes. Then they can share or choose not to share, what they have written. We agreed on the title Being Heard. Outcome: We both share our writing and take a copy of each home with us. Here is what I notice from the two pieces of work. Both pieces draw upon elements of our informal chat, about a book we've both read, our families, she refers to the man opposite us who is drawing us while we speak. Both of us talk of children listening and speaking as new people. We make the same point about distortion: she speaks of listening Only through my censored brain. I talk of the unwillingness of adults to disclose. Our handwriting are very different but both large, untidy, flowing- 3 crossings out between us. Job done we revert to small talk again. Some overall thoughts: The meeting is a mix of informal and structured communication. Much of it depends on willingness of both of us to share, conveyed by gesture, shared observations and light heartedness. Eye contact cues, looking away, looking at each other etc. Not possible on line or the phone. It helps being out somewhere, drinking and eating. Alice- if Sally is agreeable you could include copies of the writing if it would add something.

Alice- continuing the tagging on method because it seems to work. I would rather have a discreet entry but never mind. thank you for your responses and sharing and for this opportunity to revisit the sunny days of childhood as the rain is tipping down outside. As I still feel insecure at NOT pressing the Save button -please confirm you have got this> XXMum High Street, Old Portsmouth 1958 We have crossed the bumpy cobbled road, full of pot -holes to visit the shop across the street from where we live. It is not one of our favourite shops as the variety of sweets is limited. No gob-stoppers or chewing gum in packets with film star cards inside. For some reason we choose to come here, maybe because it is closest and we have some large brown pennies and smaller brown halfpennies in our pockets. The halfpennies have little galleons sailing across them on the tails side. The pennies have Brittania with her trident. The shop is on a corner, there is a scarlet pillar box standing there. The letter slot is above our heads. Even Bill the tallest of us, is not yet eye-level with the dark, rectangular slit that swallows letters. When Ian or I are sent over the road to pop a letter in, we have to reach up. We are outside, near the box, happily eating our sweets. Bill is a little way off but Ian and I are close together. We usually are. He is younger than I, but out of school, we play together everyday. It is summer time and so we go with our mothers down to The Hot Walls to swim. Our hair is still damp and smelling of sea weed. Other times we play long, imaginary, games with Piglet and Scott- toy animals. Like us they live next door to each other but in cardboard box houses. Some times we join with Pete, Ian's big brother, in fashioning and making war with brown plasticene armies. Most days we wander the neighbourhood. These adventures take in worming through the drainage arches of Portsmouth Catherdral and playing in abandoned landing craft in the Camber Docks. Nothing is out of bounds and very exciting. Best of all, is to climb out on the parapet of Ian's flat. This is the top storey of a tall, Georgian house . There is only a low wall between us and a fall into Old man Barlett's garage below. We can see for miles and have a 380 degree panorama of the place when we walk around the perimeter of the building. We have done this once balancing on top of the wall. But right now we are at ground level. I have to tell Ian something. I look into his soft blue eyes and tell him,  We are going to New Zealand soon

Day 20 Observations on finished Chart. Scores: family 7 creativity 4 learning/thinking 9 environment 8 domesticity 4 spiritual 7 physical 4 socialising 11 Looking generally well balanced could it be down to the choice of categories? It is the chart of a retired person- previous charts would of looked entirely different. Surprised that family is not more dominant- it feels so. Had I picked a more involved 8 days it would have been the case. Displeased to see that Domesticity and Creativity have equal weight. Would like to see more time for Creativity BUT there is much creativity within all the other categories. e. g. cooking, gardening, playing with the children. Dear Al, I'm up to date- will try to revisit the Traction chart during the duration. Have invited Sally to be my listening/listened to person-awaiting her reply! Clan Mothers last night was Listening Woman- am being mind blown with all the synchronism . Also liking using the Evernote preferable to using word. Lots of love Mum xxxx Up date 7/6/17 Seeing Sally today for lunch 1: 00 at The Lord Nelson ! xxxxxxx

Day 22 Review FACTFelt you own longings ? Most definitely so this is matched by feeling your own limitations. These are many. To name a few: Limited time and energy. Lack of technological know how. A tendency to get distracted and easily led off the pathway. Too many things that I want to do so unable to prioritise. Acted in alignment with your own truth ? Yes, luckily I do sense a connection to my inner truth and keep that as an anchor. There are wobbles but I have become more aware, through this process, that connections I felt in childhood have remained strong within me and that as I grow older, there is something of a return to these core beliefs. It is difficult to give examples but there is a very strong affinity to the natural world which I have always sensed. Now I am able to see this as a form of spiritual knowing. The other linked, thing is magical thinking. Much of this has been side-lined by conventional ways of looking at the world, based on fact and rationality Whilst keeping some healthy skepticism, I am feeling more able to explore these exciting and liberating aspects of being. Courage? This is a biggy as I don't lack bravery but I do lack self confidence . It is something that will always need work. I feel it most in relation to my creativity, in making my voice heard and in taking first steps into something new. All areas, besides the family, which I really care about. It is hard for me to put myself out there. Would like to be more SPONTANEOUS but find it hard to throw caution to the wind. Working on it but it is something that doesn't lend itself to the work ethic- quite the reverse in fact. Touched, tractioned and transformed your own life purpose? Another huge area. One feels that this calls for running away to join the circus, or deciding to do a marathon or to walk from Tasmania to Timbuktu. All things that are dramatic but totally unrealistic. Like the frog spawn suddenly becoming a fully made frog in one day. I have to understand that I am in a transitional stage which is at odds with being in the latter stages of life. But part of gaining life wisdom is to learn ACCEPTANCE and PATIENCE. All part of being kind to oneself. Plus if one puts this present life in a sequence of many lives- the here and now is not the end of the story. Creature Conversations I want to fly high, said the snake You do not have wings, sang skylark. Even though I only see the stars I know there is daytime, said bat That is nonsense replied the worm There is just heat, cold, wet, darkness I am making a web said spider See how it hangs in the bright air, to catch the sunbeams and my lunch. I will reach the peach before it falls thinks snail within his coiled shell. Ripeness is all thought the soft fruit, Tumbling down to the damp earth. Or if you prefer Haiku _ I want to fly high said the snake to the skylark You do not have wings Though I only see nightI know of light said bat Worm replied Nonsense I'm making a web For catching sunbeams and lunch Says Grandma spider I will reach the peach Thinks snail in coiled shell But the ripe fruit fell.

Day 7: Noticings. Day 19: Noticings. Four and Fifty Blackbirds Baked in a Pie… Day 5: Individual Noticings. Day 2: Individual Noticings. Day 18: Noticings. 'health, someone to love and something to look forward to'. Day 22. Noticings. Creature Comforts. Creature Conversations. The Hare and the Tortoise. Time and the Race. Day 13. Noticings. Day 1. Individual Noticings. Alice. Day 21: Noticings. In a bluebell wood at dusk when the nightingales are singing- what could be more magical? Day 16: Noticings. Day 17. Noticings! Day 10: Noticings. Day 11. Noticings. Day 4. Individual Noticings. Day 3: Individual Noticings. Day 20: Noticings. Being Heard. Much of it depends on willingness of both of us to share, conveyed by gesture, shared observations and light heartedness. Day 15: Noticings. Day 20: Noticings! Day 6: Noticings.

I can’t think of anything I never touch… Newborn babies… Inner life worlds. Poets, silly love songs and soaring musicI wish I had touched a lion – lets make that happen! Hand touching hands. Pretend plastic lipstick stolenMarks left on lives… A blackbird singing… A glass of wine… The magic finger of the past reaching out… Touching my self as a life long process…

Lovely just having you and I time for the first time in a VERY LONG WHILE. I LOVED this TOO!!! J Meditation No need to strive for food, warmth, shelter or security with just the company of another's heartbeat and a gradual, growing awareness of an exciting world out there. Being in the zone – creativity, growing things, immersive music… A certain part of the self which remains like a little light within through many rebirths the dweller in the city. (Love that!) Mother earth and dweller in the city… The mother's shielding womb. My ‘embodied’ knowledge of being a carrier is very deep… Body knowing/knowledge… before thought… deeper than thought… When my daughters were carrying their babies. When there was a danger of miscarrying or termination and when there was a still birth, the pull with that unborn soul was very urgent and strong within me too. ‘a butterfly flutter’The burden of late pregnancy, the heaviness, the slowness the sleepless nights means the transition between the child being within, to the separation of childbirth, is a process of both relief and sorrow. The pounding of a drum must link us back to that time we all shared a heartbeat in our mother's womb. Making my own drum from animal (reindeer) hide and wood (birch). On writing this, I am starting to understand why it has become a powerful medicine object (See Shaun McNiff) to me. Birthing our drums… after 9 months labour… spirit of the drum…

11. 31 07/07/2017I’ll be the woman sitting in the corner… in black and white… wearing a black hat dipped down and secretly listening in on listening women 😉… like a magpie secretly stealing conversation… XAre you disguised as a Chinese man painting watercolours of us? if so Sally says it is a bloody good disguise.

I look forward to hearing about your ‘aha’ moments… all gates can be opened. All prison doors have keys… This looks like a prison Gate and here is the key! I’m still observing and still exploring. I love hearing about your childhood!!! One has to be careful about what one says and to whom. One has to endure certain experiences. Acting in a school play and feeling a command of the stage and of the audience. I am an individual with powerful gifts. On the first date with my future husband, I have a vision. In a totally non auspicious circumstances (JCR bar) I see our whole future together flashing before me. There is a visionary, intuitive side to living + time is not only linear. I have been deeply effected by the frequent absences of my father. My coping skills are superficial. My father finds an alternative ready made family rejecting his sick wife and my own family in the process. More hard work to rebuild and forgive- still not accomplished. One of us will die before the other- at any time. An understanding that spiritual influences are present after death. We are together forever. Changing externals does not alter the inner person. Fresh fields are proving to be stimulating. This is incredibly moving too read as your daughter. I see you. Thank you.

The roses represent gardens AND my beautiful family. They are Christopher Rose (yellow), Miss Alice (soft pink), Rebecca (deep pink bud), Sister Elizabeth (bright pink) Emily Rose has no matching rose except her second name. Sharing with my mother I would love to see her response to things that I have selected most of them she would not know of as they appertain to my life since her death. She died at 69, the age I will reach this year, and it would be lovely to share with her in a similar way to the sharing that is going on between daughter Alice and myself now. The place would be in a box in an old theatre, smell of greasepaint in the air and the audience expectant below us. St Christopher. Miss Alice Rose RebeccaSister Elizabeth Rose. Emily RoseThe Globe Theatre

Mum and Dad snuggled in bed. The night before Christmas when all through the house.., Patchwork quiltStarry eyes. Big brass knobs. Mary Poppins. Van Goghs boots meet Ted. Nesting. Findings. The key… Nesting takes place all the time. Roosting and Remaining. Warm, secure comfort. The freedom of a 50’s childhood. Small velvet piglet. Putting a stamp on a house. Womanly nests and childlike ‘mount venus’ – stripped of sensuality, wildness, fertility, unkempt gardens. Cooperative nesting. Male adornment of the nest. Baths are wet, warm nesting places. Garden sanctuaries – safe but open to change – large. Nests – small and intimate. Little scenes set up. Minature gardens. Mum Watering the Garden – somehow an apt ‘circle’ too – round – story.

Revelation. Concealing. Revealing. Inside Outside Impressions. Masked men and masked women. Fear. Emptiness. Loathing. Infilling. Space spirit void.

Diana: Elder woman – an interesting list to work with later. All but a few of these descriptions indicate power of some sort. Even the more demeaning ones carry power and influence. Women in Western Society have colluded in this conspiring, we have been afraid of our own power. External focus we bury our earned and learned wisdom – inner in this trivia. The crux: to uphold the feminine traits of intuition, inner knowing, nurturing, softness, nurturing all the things that make up our power, without sacrificing them to be more evident in what is still a male orientated world.

It was ironic that our exchanges began with a misunderstanding. Different states of engagement, understanding and being. We both share our writing and take a copy of each home with usBoth pieces draw upon elements of our informal chat, about a book we've both read, our families. Both of us talk of children listening and speaking as new people. We make the same point about distortion: she speaks of listening 'Only through my censored brain'. I talk of the 'unwillingness of adults to disclose'. Our handwriting are very different but both large, untidy, flowing- 3 crossings out between us. Be great to have copies of the writing in due course if possible! 😃

Day 1: Action as doing or letting be… Beauty. Aging. Eccentric or needy. Pragmatism. Keep what is worth keeping and with a breath of kindness blow the rest away… Not carrying but standing beside another. Allowing v controlling.

To open and activate my voice whilst listening with both ears. Make enabling others less disabling for myself. Be more spontaneous . Trust my intuition more. Shed the negativity of some past experiences (forgiveness?) . Keep the sketch books, heart and the mind open. Remain kind and nonjudgemental towards others and oneselfA summary : Make the present moment the most wonderful moment of your life Thich Nhat HanhI am thinking these are all rather big steps and perhaps that is why I have stumbled before. Perhaps each needs a step ladder of little rungs to reach? I am paying attention to grab on to these rungs when they present themselves.

Hummingbird's mission is to spread joy or be destroyed. Hummingbird dies quickly if caged, caught or imprisoned. Sea. Sunshine. Friends. Finding Treasures. Growth. Having the time to shape things… Strong protective feelings towards the family a compulsion to meet their needs. My marriage and relationship with my husband grounds me (what an achievement!) Grounding things paradoxically keeps me airborne. CURIOSITY. Each day surprises me with new experiences. My husband says I am a pragmatist to his fuss pot! I have found that I don't panic in difficult situations, even if I am afraid. I am open to different ways of looking at things if a little shy to admitting to this in certain company! Figure of 8 using her body as a cross-connection between the two earth and sky…

Yes I am getting your notes and yes only you an dI can see them 😃 😃 😃 Cook together the dry ingredients with the water and bay leaf. Take turns to stir. Serve whist talking.… Just Beautiful… Greek Yoghurt from Lidl. Homemade Apricot Jam (brought home in a suitcase from Cyprus). We share our journeys on the TTT path so far, 'from doing so we both gain in mutual respect, understanding and love. ’WOW! Aha! Magic! Yes 😃 I have few anxieties. But we do take risks in making some disclosures. Some are secrets. I talk about the circumstances of my mother's death. He had no idea of how I felt… or the guilt I feel about not having been with her. He is able to give me words of solace. Fear/Touch that our disclosures are met with harsh judgments. Risk/Traction this did not happen. Joy/Transformation we will be more deeply friends from now on. This is the best outcome for both of us amounting to less loneliness and more compassion. YES! JOY! WOW! Transformation: To build on this is SO important that these revelations inform our future meetings and are not just Brushed under the carpet when we continue to meet. Happily the continuing of the project and it's final outcome will bring with it opportunities to share further at this level. YES AND A BIG THANK YOU TO YOU FOR BEING SO BRAVE! Much love Alice xxxxx

Diana: I'm finding it easier to think of detachment. The journey from the ‘head’ to the ‘heart’ is the longest journey anyone can take… Head: Subjective knowledge held by most mothers (but written here by Male ‘experts’ of course…;) From breast to distancing… separation ‘anxiety’This breaking away is most painfully experienced post adolescence for the mother? But maybe not the child? Maybe this is earlier? ‘A two-way process to allow and let go’. Parent-Child-Parent. It is very difficult to come by the necessary distance ‘between’ to allow one another to continue maturing. Maybe this is our dance now: Participant 11 said of my feedback on us: ‘Are you and Mum renegotiating your structural coupling, or more evocatively your dance of interacting parts? Are you both rebirthing your relationship of mother-daughter?’ – how lovely and right is that! rites of passage We love to be a close family still and to be a source of strength for one another but sometimes it is restrictive. Propping up another grown person is not really respecting that other's autonomy. – Beautiful! Very often in the joy of discovering a new friend, or lover, there is a desire to see and be with the other person as much as possible. Obviously there are degrees to this according to the intensity of the relationship. Yet whatever the degree, there comes a time to ease off or risk becoming a symbiotic pairing with little individual growing space available. Oh yes… too much co-merging… not enough ‘traction/difference/space’ This is written some days later on reflection I think detachment is in reality pretty unobtainable where love is involved. It is never entirely possible to be free of those you have loved, they call to you from the past and little shards of even lost friendships ‘crop up and drag up’ emotions good or bad… Nor is it desirable to close the heart because in order to be fully alive the heart needs to remain open. From my Evernotes Dec 2015.

Diana: Relief. Annoying. Rubbish. Motivation. Observation – generating problems and misunderstandings. Nothing can match face to face human interaction, without the nuances of gesture, intonation, pause. The web has tremendous potential for good: Linking people educating, aiding, barrier breaker- could be a peace maker too. Fluid feminine form? Diana: I love this and would like to share it with the group today! 😃 A little bit of magic indeed!

It is the chart of a retired person- previous charts would of looked entirely different. Displeased to see that Domesticity and Creativity have equal weight and yet I note are lower than: Socialising and Friends… Learning and Thinking… Perhaps you are making more time to mix and blend and adventure with others outside the family in ‘retirement’… It is interesting to that you ‘would like to see more time for Creativity BUT also recognise 'there is much creativity within all the other categories. e. g. cooking, gardening, playing with the children. ’Perhaps you need to make more time for Creativity/Spirituality alone time for you not dependent on friends or family… solo pottering/restoring time..? Love the blackbirds in a pie!

Diana: Yesterday (Day 11) the gift was two fallen white candelabra blossoms from the mighty horse chestnuts. We make for the place I try to be whenever I come here especially in the mornings, so I can greet the day. It is the smooth stump of an Old chestnut which has been cut down since we came to live here, it has a still living neighbour- right now so densely leafy that it causes me to think there must be as many leaves on it as there are stars in the sky. Above, Below and Within are part of it. Each direction holding its own significance. I am aware of a low deep pain in my coreI am mesmerised by the interwoven stories of our birthdays yours and mine. I love this passage and the red thread it is written in that bonds us, mother to daughter, daughter to mother, mother to grandmother, grandmother to mother to great grandmother. Peter has died. Peter lived again as your friend. The Grandfather dies on the same patch of earth where [me] his first Grandchild had been born. WOW. I have a daughter… whose will already follows its own directions, and who has quickly corrected my woolly preconceptions of her by being something remorselessly different. Yes I do and you too have quickly corrected my woolly preconceptions and I see you and love you as something beautiful and remorsefully different and I am loving getting to know the you inside. Laurie Lee 1963.