The Hummingbird is everywhere in Trinidad! They love the hibiscus flowers and as these flowers are everywhere so are the hummingbirds. Their wings make a humming noise as they hover with their beaks taking nectar from the stamen of flowers and I remember being so very fascinated by them as a child. I could watch them for hours! As a Therapist my clients and I co-create the work through dialogue, exploration and expression. My focus these past few years has been a process of 'hovering and I feel the need to move now’. 'The direction isn't quite clear yet but I want to move! ’'I have dropped the ties that bind me to this place where I hover, around me are other flowers with nectars of different flavours… I want to try them out. It feels like an adventure waiting to happen. I feel a sense of trust that will know what direction to move towards in the moment that I am ready to move. I see only colour, swathes of colour, fields of colour and seas of colour. Walking through fields of gold… Stray dogs, skinny and boneyDead coconut leaf. GrandadFindy. Sea… endless and stretching. Crabs in holes breathless. Deep blue. Expansive hot warm hues.

Beautiful photographs, Youthful strong hands. Sexual veiny hands. Artists hands. No decay please. Heat and warmth yes please! Wanting to ‘be’ not having to ‘do’. Touched by what it means to be human in all its vulnerabilities emotions capacities. I wish I had touched my mother before she died. Deep longing. Touch me on the lips! Blank, empty, blocked. Accepting anger hatred rage. I left a mark on my skin. I am touched every time I connect. Eyes… Breath… I touch base! Yes I do! The past touches me like a bikini wax. I move into a different zone when I paint. Flow not fight.

The deep sea… Floating and being held… as one… Loss. Supervision of freedom… sadness. I want to come home again. My paintings at the moment are all about water and safe spaces. I have been compelled to paint the experience of being surrounded by water, being immersed in liquid and my memories of those experiences that live in me. I especially like watching the light on the water and the ripples and movement under the surface. Mesmerising artworks… so deep blue and you… I honour you too Donna and I am going to ‘supervise you’ in one way or another over this year to cycle and swim beside me. XI read this and cried! It was your last sentence Alice that landed like a gentle splash in the water. It rippled out and touched me deeply. Reconnecting. I am reconnecting in this process. That is why I needed to do this and felt drawn to this creative engagement. The timing is perfect! 🙏🏼❤️

A long flowing firework of connections, explosions, body mapping, carrying over reaching out and putting down… Collision crash – stepping out – breath – fire – arrive. Sunshine. Edward is Yellow. Very Yellow and very prominent. Squiggling out. Green splurges. Crossings out. Saskia! Yes! Yellow… Big too. Birthed. Crayons. Texture. Vitality. Life. Raw energy. I realised that the past 10 to 15 years have been built around work. This was an eye opener for me. The other people in the 3rd sheet I see at times throughout the year or every couple of years. I was in shock. I am in shock. Both Edward and I are like this. Because I work so intensely with traumatised people I feel the need to retreat and create space for solitude and quiet. I have needed to let go of a few people (friends) on the way. Some of them were very demanding of me and did not or could not understand my need for my creative space, my creative solitude. Instead, the took offence and were very critical and in some cases demanding more of me. It was at these points when I had to kick them to the curb. I could not keep the wheel spinning. I had to get rid of the dirt that was hanging on and making me feel worthless. Oh Donna I so resonate with the needing to ‘kick them to the curb’ friends who were very critical because they did not or could not understand your need for creative space… Thank you for also giving me permission with this. You are also part of my tribe. You get me and love me all the same because we resonant in the depths and delight in the heights. Thank you for seeing and being this alongside me… Damien Hirst Spin Paintings…

Donna: I have moved across the world and moved to deep dark places. I'm in the process of moving again and this experience, being a participant in this is moving me through it Alice. I am frightened and I am hopeful and I am excited and I am curious. I have no clear plans but I have stirrings of a pathway up ahead, the clearing soon to come into view. I am making marks that are different now. I am writing. Losing time in seizures and not knowing what went on and what happened in my gaps made me feel hopeless. ‘If you take Einstein’s universe at face value – and there’s no reason why you shouldn’t, it’s our best theory of space and time – then this picture of space-time, with events placed within it, suggests something wonderful, and I think quite magical. ‘If I leave a place in space, then it doesn’t cease to exist when I’ve left it, and in space-time, if I leave an event it doesn’t cease to exist when I’ve left it. ‘So, that suggests that all those summers you spent with your mum and dad, or that first Christmas with your grandparents long ago, all those most precious memories of people and places, all those summers and winters past, and seasons yet to come, are out there. ‘Somewhere in space-time.’ Let go… let go… let go is my new mantra. This is massive – well done lovely woman. I am not there yet – I can almost do the walking away but am still ‘carrying the guilt’ – I need to put it down… I was able to walk away from those accusations without trying to make it better. I am different and that IS ok! A senior monk and a junior monk were traveling together. At one point, they came to a river with a strong current. As the monks were preparing to cross the river, they saw a very young and beautiful woman also attempting to cross. The young woman asked if they could help her cross to the other side. The two monks glanced at one another because they had taken vows not to touch a woman. Then, without a word, the older monk picked up the woman, carried her across the river, placed her gently on the other side, and carried on his journey. The younger monk couldn’t believe what had just happened. After rejoining his companion, he was speechless, and an hour passed without a word between them. Two more hours passed, then three, finally the younger monk could contain himself any longer, and blurted out As monks, we are not permitted a woman, how could you then carry that woman on your shoulders? The older monk looked at him and replied, Brother, I set her down on the other side of the river, why are you still carrying her? --This simple Zen story has a beautiful message about living in the present moment. How often do we carry around past hurts, holding onto resentments when the only person we are really hurting is ourselves. We all go through times in life when other people say things or behave in a way that is hurtful towards us. We can chose to ruminate over past actions or events, but it will ultimately weigh us down and sap our energy. Instead we can choose to let go of what doesn’t serve us anymore and concentrate on the present moment. Until we can find a level of peace and happiness in the present circumstances of our lives, we will never be content, because ‘now’ is all we will ever have. Gassho.

Donna: I have a bittersweet relationship with social media and the digital world. I rely on it and the role that it plays for me is to 'keep connection'. I love it immediacy! And [yet] I wonder also about how it can distance one from another and even from oneself. The [creative] pull to get to my IPad wishing he would go quickly so I could start. It was both exciting and annoying. It pulls me away into a different space that feels more internal and exclusive than being in my surroundings. It has given me opportunities! It keeps me connected with myself and with you. 'I was on the train on Thursday coming back from work and as I sat on the train, I looked around and I am not exaggerating, every single person in the carriage had their head down either on a laptop, iPad or phone. Some people had headphones on, some were texting away, some talking and all were in their own little world. I did not have any eye contact from anyone. I felt excluded and alone. That sense of being excluded made me want to reach for my phone and I realized I was only wanting to do so because I felt alone. I wanted to 'connect' with someone, something of interest. I felt a different sense of aloneness sitting there on a train full of people. Attention was elsewhere. It was focused in and out via digital devices. It was not in the immediate space, environment around the people. I do it myself and know that I am cutting off and going somewhere more comfortable.’ Rich reflective thoughts here – thank you! :)

Beautiful writing… colours and textures… I have locked myself away in my studio and have produced lots of work but something has been missing… I want Gong Baths! I want Kundalini Yoga! I want to Swim! I want to ride my Bike! I want to Languish in Jacuzzis! I want to Dance! I want more contact with people I love. I want to laugh out loud and giggle! I want to be Wicked! I want to walk in Beautiful surroundings and feel the sun on my Skin. I want to explore new places and meet new people. I want to Paint and Paint and Paint! I have to plan!

Swimming in the beautiful transformative waters of the deep blue soupy sea! :) Security, Swim, Soup, Shell. Trans-forming. Be-Coming. D these are the most beautiful pictures I've seen of yours I feel as yet… they are affecting me… I want to move in them too… BLISS. Thank you. X

Lets us build a safe space light it and love it and share our hearts our stories and find our truths… Let us also have laughter, and tickles, and music and curries and stewed chicken, coconut bread, red mango, dumplings and lots and lots of raw charged dancing…

Donna: I love the female form in all its stages of life. Growing up in the Caribbean I was surrounded by big strong black women who wore their forms with pride and strengthMy experience of the feminine is earthy, full, loud, BIG, powerful and surrounded by love. I love the wench in me, the mother in me, the wild woman in me. I have nourished my feminine energy. I am blessed to have a man in my life who celebrates her and journeys alongside her with glee. My inner feminine has experienced great healing with this man. He makes me laugh out loud and we play together often. I am enough with him and for him. My tribe: We have cried together and held each other gently and strongly. Gorgeous round bellied bodies and soft forms flowing…

Transformation occurs once full contact is experienced. Full contact brings so much with it, awareness, sensitivity and emotion. Holding all of that with care and consideration. I can move in any direction I choose. I choose to transform the following in my life: 1. I accept that I am an Artist and I can share my work with sensitivity and heart. 2. I can have what I want. I have every right to ask for what I want and to make it happen. 3. I am meant to be! I am meant to feel! I deserve LOVE. 4. I am LOVE. I want LOVE. I want to transform my limiting beliefs about what I deserve. 5. I want to express a need and I want to meet it without shame or any sense of desperation. 6. I want a home by the sea. 7. I want good health. All in connection with likeminded Souls and Sisters.",

You have read my mind again Alice with these prompts! The biggest transformation that has taken place for me these past few days was that I picked up the phone and called my Father. I made contact after 9 months of deliberately cutting him off and out of my life. WOW! The conversation was very different. I spoke from a place of compassion for myself and clarity about my boundaries. I told him I loved him but that I hurt knowing that he could not be the kind of Father I needed and wanted. I heard his pain and I heard his limitations. I understood his fear and I accepted that he loves me in the only way he knows how. He is broken and I am broken but we are putting the pieces back together again. We are doing this with care, with trepidation to a degree and more awareness of each other. This is completely amazing so courageous, 'My little girl needs a gentle touch, she needs to be gently spoon fed and then celebrated for her courage and her curiosity’ said her Father. I see you. My little girl was abandoned repeatedly and is very sensitive to loss and rejection. She in turn rejected and pushed her father away out of hurt and longing. It is not a coincidence that this was a nine month period. Gestation, nesting, transforming, soup, nourishment, repairing what is broken. That is what is sitting with me right now. This has been a truly enlightening and insightful process Alice. I would not have done this if it was anyone else. This felt right from the beginning and each step has felt purposeful. The synchronicity and the flow has been deeply moving. I have sat and sobbed and laughed and felt alive. Thank you. Thank you dear little-big Donna for being SOOOOOO brave and real… Your beautiful golden heart is healing. Healing through hearts of gold…

Donna: The process of nestling into my studio helped me make deeper contact with myself. I could not hide from or ignore my internal world. My paintings spoke for me. They became my anchor to myself and life. I believed that no one was really interested in my experience. I was there to look after others and to make things ok for everyone else. My pain, my grief, my rage was not interesting or valuable enough for me to share with others. So – I decided six months ago that if I did not engage with my Self, I would live lonely, isolated and only in service to others. This past year has been about remaking connections, establishing clear boundaries and learning how to touch the space within and without in a way that is healthy and relational. A transformational encounter is taking place in microcosmic and macrocosmic spaces. I am daring to put myself out there 'beside' others after going 'within' to love and accept more of myself. I want friendship, connection, love, attachment and only because I have decided to give it to myself first am I able to let it happen with an other! These are images from the space within me and the spaces in between and the spaces I work and live in. The female form from youth through pregnancy and old age are depicted here. My connections with the women in my life are very important to me. They are my tribe! My holding and gave me an experience of deep love. Fecund. Ripe. Rich. Womanly. Wholesome. Tender. Fiercely alive and true. Smashes of colour. Splashes of colour. I have just decided I need to put my painting I bought from you two years ago on my alter – I called it ‘The becoming’ and I feel the same as you now in the micro and macro cosmos of life we are co-becoming together in love and trust and ‘besideness’ not as I shared with another Participant in opposition or competition or ‘horizontal hostility as it is termed…’ My paintings adorn the walls of the studio and no longer hide away in drawers. The studio wears them with pride and excitement at what will emerge next. You are one of the most sensual and sexual women I know – you gave me permission when I was at the age of 30 to be in my body… I kept slipping back out of that embodied state and retreating back up and into my head but I am still here… learning to love myself more and I have birthed two boys… none of that would have happened without the healing space and friendship of IATE and for that alone I treasure and honour you DML.

My Birth Day was the day I entered into Therapy and became present to myself. Standing in a stone circle [I am] reminded of cycles of Life. Birth. Death and Time. We walked in a full circle today and spoke of the cycles that we experienced. My birth family is one experience. But. Allowing myself to be birthed into my tribe of woman is what matters to me. My daughter was conceived months after my (first therapy) training was finished. So much was conceived and birthed as a result of this and I honour this as A Birth Day. My name is Donna Maria Loiola I was born in London Paddington on January 22nd 1965. I don't know the time. And today May 31st 2017 is 00. 06 the cusp of another day begins…

I am so completely synchronised with this process. Is it because it is the perfect time for me? Or is it devised to bring me to these conclusions, insights & understandings? I feel like something far bigger than me is happening here Alice. The ideas of Co-Creation and Synchronicity are very present here for me. And now on to today's (I am one day behind) day 9 prompt. Is this a slippage? :) This is so beautiful Donna – and validating – I feel it too… part is defined – part is reflective – I work with my ideas as an interweave with all your noticings too! Beautiful :) Embodied ambivalence. MMMMMmmmmm. Yummy! :) I feel alone again. I know this place, this space, this aloneness. They are everywhere and instead of feeling comforted but this I feel trapped. I don't know why. I take the lift down to the ground floor and walk across the gardens to the dining room. The food is bland, colourless and flavourless. I miss my currys and stew chicken, coconut bread, red mango, dumplings and home cooked food. I am 19 years old and missing home. Home is not the house I lived in. It is the Island I love. The rain is lighter here. It wets me and makes me cold unlike the rain in Trinidad that cools me down and stings my skin when it lands. It makes noise and comforts me. The rain here is frustrating. It lands lightly touching but not touching me. I want the contact of the raindrops. I want to feel it land, make contact. Everything seems to be more refined and quieter. I prefer to hear it and feel it. My mother is dead. My father is remarried and has sent me to London. My brother has gone to Toronto, Canada. We are broken up and broken down. I have been banished and I am not welcome back. I am so confused and so hungry for colour, heat, flavour and movement. The skies are grey but there is the scent of incense and the remnants of last nights dinner in the air. Silky cushions are dotted around the house. I often slide my hands over them as i pass by. Rich, round, beautiful woman – you are so wealthy and full and colourful. And mmmmmmmmmmm.

Day 1: Contact. Connection. Acceptance. Deeply moved. Quality – feeling… Slow downSelf love. Allow, accept, present self. Quality of contact. Space for contact. Big green eye. Tunnel. Vision. Hope. Day 2: Collections. Big nest. Mini nest. Filling spaces with objects. Connections. Comfort. Regulation. Physical, emotional, psychological space. Safety. Empty nest. Connecting and affirming closeness. DMCSTrust. Disintegrated home. Paintings that hold. Home is where the heart is. Celebration. Life. Colour.

'I would like to cook something for 'a part' of myself. Ingredients for Trinidadian Oxtail Soup: Scotch Bonnet Peppers chopped with spicy dancing. Carrots, Sweet potatoes, Plantain and Yams softly sung to. As I read curled up on my soft sofa it cooks for hours and becomes infused with spices. I breathe in. The smell reminds me of home and of my grandmother. The taste of home, the flavours of home, the smells of home! I learned something this past week! I learned that I can really look after my 'little one' and give her space the way that no one else can. I gave her voice this week and in listening she says she wants Oxtail Soup! So the two of us cook together and play together and enjoy this Caribbean feast! I play her some beautiful old time calypsos and burn deep smelling incense that perfumes and smokes the air. I remember when my Grandfather and his family came together to pray the house would be full of prayers of incense and curry. My family is soup like. Irish, Spanish, Muslim, African all mixed together. My little girl needs a gentle touch, she needs to be gently spoon fed and then celebrated for her courage and her curiosity. She is such a HUGE part of this creative endeavor and she has found her voice through these dialogues and explorations. I am smiling into your loving eyes little Donna. I am so grateful that you came into my life at IATE and again now… to remind me that I can dance and play and be free and have choice! Voice and Choice. We are both open and willing to receive nourishment. Like Water for Chocolate. Delicatessen. Patrick Suskind. Arundhati Roy.

Immediately I think of the sea. I grew up on a little Caribbean island and spent lots of time in the sea. I loved nothing more that floating in the water and being held in the water when I was a child. I learned to swim early and my family always said I was like a little fish. When I imagine into my experience of nesting in the womb my senses and my entire body re membered floating, rocking, gliding through and the sensation of not being separate when immersed in water. It is almost a meditative experience for me and until this prompt I have not given it much consideration. I don't swim any more and I cannot remember the last time I went to the pool. I don't often have baths either especially as 'I am going through peri menopause because it is too hot for me. This makes me feel sad. As I write I feel a loss. I was told when l was diagnosed with epilepsy a year ago that swimming and riding bikes were two things i needed to do with supervision. I miss doing both and I realise that I just put them away. I spent time in Spain last summer and loved being in the water, it reminded me of Trinidad and actually thinking of it now it was the combination of the sun on my skin and being surrounded and held by the water that made me think of 'home'. I want to come home again. Is it so easy as getting into the pool and allowing myself to be held? Why have I just walked away from it? Maybe I haven't, maybe I have just used my other senses to bring this experience into my awareness. So, home, nest, womb, warmth, senses, sensation, floating, safety, containment all link with my experience of the womb. My paintings at the moment are all about water and safe spaces. Is this a connection? I am wondering about this now because for the past year I have been compelled to paint the experience of being surrounded by water, being immersed in liquid and my memories of those experiences that live in me. I have not given this much consideration but allowed myself to just follow the pull and do it. I make time to go sit next to the river and can spend hours watching the tide and the water level rise or lower. I especially like watching the light on the water and the ripples and movement under the surface. I yearn to be in there submerged and floating and know now that it offers me a sense of safety and comfort. Here are some of the pieces that I have been working on and will be showing in my Open Studio at the end of June. They have been birthed and will be meeting the world then. I am completely fascinated by the timing of all of this and the insight that I am gaining. My intuition spoke strongly to me when I saw your request for applicants and I responded not knowing fully why. It feels like an unfolding process for me right now and I want to honour this timing and opportunity. 🙏🏼 Thank You!

My relationship map highlighted for me that although I have lots of connections they are more from the past. I found myself struggling to put names down as I realised that the past 10 to 15 years have been built around work. This was an eye opener for me. I spend my time with clients, Supervisees and groups that involve work! I then feel so tired and full that I just want to spend time on my own and in my studio so I withdraw and retire. Being ill has not helped. The last page on my map is pretty much of the social contact I have on any regular basis. The other people in the 3rd sheet I see at times throughout the year or every couple of years. I was in shock. I am in shock. Both Edward and I are like this. My tribe consist of the women I met in my late teens, throughout my first Psychotherapy training and my IATE training and beyond. They don't all live nearby and we don't always have ongoing contact. Because I work so intensely with traumatised people I feel the need to retreat and create space for solitude and quiet. I have needed to let go of a few people (friends)on the way. Some of them were very demanding of me and did not or could not understand my need for my creative space, my creative solitude. Instead, the took offence and were very critical and in some cases demanding more of me. It was at these points when I had to kick them to the curb. I could not keep the wheel spinning. I had to get rid of the dirt that was hanging on and making me feel worthless.

I am always cooking for others and I think this time… I would like to cook something for a part of myself. I want to cook a Trinidadian oxtail soup with scotch bonnet peppers, carrots, sweet potatoes, plantain and yams. It cooks for hours and becomes infused with the spices and peppers. It reminds me of home and my grandmother. The tast of home, the flavours of home, the smells of home! I learned something this past week! I learned that I can really look after my little one and give her space the way that no one else can. I gave her more of a voice this week and in listening to her she says she wants Oxtail Soup! So the two of us want to cook together and plan together and enjoy this Caribbean feast together! I have some beautiful old time calypsos and incense that I would like to burn. I remember when my Grandfather and his family came together to pray (he was Muslim) the house would be filled with prayers, incense and the smell of curry. Those memories come to me when I think of soup, family and tradition. My family is soup like. Irish, Spanish, Muslim, African all mixed together to create a tasty and interesting meal. My little girl needs a gentle touch, she needs to be fed, spoon fed and then celebrated for her courage and her curiosity. She wanted to be a part of this creative endeavor and she found her voice throughout these dialogues and explorations. She is smiling up at you Alice ! She asks me to let you know how grateful she is that you came into her life first at IATE and now… to remind her that she could find her voice! She is ready to sup of the soup! She is willing to be fed, spoon fed. She is open and willing to receive nourishment.

I never touch decay… and that just came to me. Without hesitation. Decaying flesh of animals, fruit, vegetables anything that is slime. I like to touch warmth. Skin, sun warmed objects, hot cups of tea/coffee. Fur. Life. I am completely in touch with my 'wanting' to just be and not have to do right now. I have felt touched by … the other. Life. Innocence. Purity. Wounds. Loss. Grief. Hatred. Rage. Determination. Purpose. Vulnerability. I wish I had touched my mother before she died. I like being touched on the lips. I swear I never touched and I cannot think of anything for this… blank, empty or blocked? I wanted to say hatred and rage but this is not true… I left a mark on my skin… I am touched every time I connect. I like to touch base by making eye contact, asking questions, breathing. I like to touch base with family, friends, clients, colleagues myself, artwork, my community, nature, paint materials, music, the purr of the cats. The wet tongues of dogs. The past touches me like a bikini wax. I am very much in touch with myself which can sometimes be damn hard work. I'm switched on all the time to my need, my want, my desire, my angst, my pain, yearning and rage. I move into a different zone when I paint or immerse myself in creative activity. I flow then and don't fight anything. It all can swim around together and it isn't a problem but part of the whole. I like that.

The Hummingbird is everywhere in Trinidad! They love the hibiscus flowers and as these flowers are everywhere so are the hummingbirds. Their wings make a humming noise as they hover with their beaks taking nectar from the stamen of flowers and I remember being so very fascinated by them as a child. I could watch them for hours! Co creation is a huge part of the work I do as a Therapist. My clients and I co create the work through dialogue, exploration and expression. My focus these past few years has been a process of hovering and I feel the need to move now. The direction isn't quite clear yet but I want to move! I am excited that there are so many directions! I feel the thrust. I am aware of the drag… my father and his deep wounds. For a long time they dragged me down and I tried to propel forward but it was painful. I have dropped the ties that bind me to this place where I hover. around me I see other flowers with nectars of different flavours and like my soup I want to try them out. It feels like an adventure waiting to happen. I feel no urgency or despair but a sense of trust. I trust that will know what direction to move towards in the moment that I am ready to move. Any pressure that was there before has dissipated and my flight may well be bumpy but that too is part of the adventure. I see only colour, swathes of colour, fields of colour and seas of colour.

I want to swim in the soup that is encased in the chrysalis! I want to float in it, feel the security and containment of the shell and the anticipation of creating and forming something new. Transforming. Trans … Forming!!! I, m on the way to Be Coming. Here are two images I've been playing with recently. I thought of them immediately when I read these prompts. These feel very much like what the trans part of the forming are like at the moment. I will sit and feel more of the forming and will respond in Images first before I use language. I'll be back! 🙏🏼

Transformational Encounters have occurred throughout my life making me learn and move. I have moved across the world and moved to deep dark places. I'm in the process of moving again and this experience, being a participant in this is moving me through it Alice. I was deeply moved by your courage and bravery throughout your story! I could see you jumping off the rock in Devon. I held you while you held your sister and her stillborn baby. I admire your courage to listen to your truth and to follow it. I honour your vulnerability and your strength! I am frightened and I am hopeful and I am excited and I am curious. I have no clear plans but I have stirrings of a pathway up ahead, the clearing soon to come into view. I am being birthed again! This phase of my life is challenging stories that have been given to me. I am taking the paper and the writing utensils and I am making marks that are different now. I am writing. Losing time in seizures and not knowing what went on and what happened in my gaps made me feel hopeless, helpless, like a victim and that there was only this. It also made me realize that I have to slow myself down and stop trying to please others or live for others. Let go… let go… let go is my new mantra. I have choices and I don't have to suffer. I can rest! I can enjoy and I deserve love are new and hold a different meaning. I recently let go of a couple of relationships that did not serve me or support me but made demands on me. I was attacked, blamed for causing great hurt and being insensitive. The fact that I was able to walk away from those accusations without trying to make it better tells me I am in movement and that the dirt flying off the wheel in traction is lightening my load. It is quality and not quantity that matters to me. Traction. Transfomational Encounters. pages

Talk about excited!!! I woke up this morning eager to check into Evernote and felt such excitement after reading today's prompt that I picked up my iPad and went through the house taking pics of some of my many nests within my big nest! I love making nests! I love nesting! I love filling spaces with different objects, all of which have meaning and connect with me or someone I love or some place I love! It could be one way I self regulate and comfort myself while also wanting to share it with an 'other'. It is a safe space for me and my loved ones. It symbolizes containment, holding, comfort, love, security and the perfect space for 'contact' and 'connection'. As I write this I realize that my life and my way is all about nesting! My role as Psychotherapist is to hold space and my Therapy space is full of colour, materials both organic and manmade, fabric, shiny objects, scent, instruments. It is a safe space to explore and 'be'. The physical space is as important as the emotional and psychological space for some people. I have experienced this with my clients and watched how attached they become to the space as well as myself. The safety of the nest is important. On a personal level, I know that for me it is so very important. If a space is too clinical or void of colour and texture I want to create something cosy and colorful. It is something very intrinsic in my nature to create a nest and to seek one out if it is absent. I love having friends come over and enjoy being in my space. I love watching them respond to the colours, textures, scent of oil or incense. I love preparing food, drink and listening to music while they settle in and we spend time together. This is very important to me. This past year my 21 yr old daughter moved out to live with friends while in University and that had such a huge impact on me and our nest. The impact on the space and her absence took my husband and I by surprise! I understand now why they call it the empty nest syndrome! We have adjusted and managed by creating more nesting space together. Curling up in the sofa, longer mornings with coffee in bed, spending more time in my creative nest (art studio) and planning together how we want to nest. The best part for me is when Saskia comes to visit, she wants to curl up with us on the sofa and will often request that the three of us sit up in our big bed and watch a film together. Popcorn, tea/coffee and the three of us under the duvet with a good film is the nest that we create together. It is how we get connect and affirm our closeness. I love that she can ask for it and that it leads to what she calls dmcs (deep meaningful conversations). It makes her feel loved, she feels safe and can have these conversations knowing she is nestled in with the two people she trusts the most. We enjoy these moments and feel so honoured that we are a part of this. So, yes nesting and creating nests is huge for me! I realize that even my recent series of Mindful Moments paintings are all nest like. I would not have made the connection without this prompt today and it makes sense why I felt so excited by it. My experience of losing my Mother at age 15 and my Father remarrying a year later meant that my 'home' disintegrated and for years I sought that sense of containment and cosy home feeling. I sought it outside of myself until I met and married my wonderful husband. They say that home is where the heart is and I really understand that. Edward had Saskia helped me re establish that Love connection along with my treasured friends and my nesting is about a safe space for us all! I carry the nesting instinct in me and nourish it in every aspect of my life. It manifests in the spaces in my home, my work and my creativity. Again, it is the contact, touch, felt sense of and both physical and internal space that is detrimental to my nesting process. I attach an image of one of my paintings that speaks of this. Thank you for this opportunity! It has been lovely to reconnect with this! 🙏🏼❤

I really liked doing this prompt! It was a different way of mapping out what is going on. As I suspected, I have become a boring old fart! Since it started having seizures I have become so frightened of having them that I don't plan or consider 'doing' anything new. I have locked myself away in my studio and have produced lots of work but something has been missing! I want my Gong Baths and my Kundalini Yoga again. I want to swim! I want to ride a bike again and I want to languish in steam rooms, jacuzzis and to dance. These elements are missing from my life along with more contact with people I love. I want to laugh out loud and giggle. I want to dance and be wicked! I want to walk in beautiful surroundings and feel the sun on my skin. I want to explore new places and meet new people. I want to paint and paint and paint! I have to plan! I have to ask mysel what I want and what I need and I have to listen. I have to listen the way I listened to my little girl and nourish her with my soup.

Dear Alice, My process for this particular day 15 … I got stuck here like a wheel deeply embedded in mud! It was interesting to note my response to this maybe because there was so much here that resonated with me. I felt stuck and a little lost too. So I walked away promising myself that I would come back and sit with it when I was ready to spin the wheel. I needed to understand and in my own way make sense of the chart, diagram and the constellations. So, I gave myself the space to not think about it but I was aware that I was still holding a little worry about letting you down for not completing the week. As I observed my thinking around this and the way I navigated through the weekend I decided to read through it all again, this time making notes. The correlations and the process that was described and laid out so very clearly was TRUE to my internal and external processes. I needed to space to think and process this new information of mapping and chart. I felt the challenge to understand the image and the planets (and still do) because here was something very new by way of imagery and planets. I have never had a chart drawn up even though I was always curious. I was challenged by this! I was curious and determined to 'know' or 'understand' it better. The battle of head and heart ensued and I felt more lost. This fascinated me! This morning I gave myself the space knowing that I didn't have clients today. I could nestle into my safe space (nest) and explore, break down and make sense of my feeling, my thinking and how it all fit together. I realised that I felt stuck because I did not 'know' about this mapping and what the planets meant and I needed to know and understand so I could move forward. The wheel is moving and is freeing up, moving without mud and ready to move out of that stuck space, very much how I feel now. There are a couple of areas I don't understand and want to know more about so I will do my research and this on its own encourages me to continue use on this journey. In response to the prompts here is what jumped out at me… I saw triangles, pyramid and symbols that were familiar but I did not know or understand very well. I could not relate to these symbols or shapes and felt confused and lost. I read the information and got more lost. I felt like I'd gone into a wood and got lost in a new territory. I retreated and allowed myself time to observe myself and the process. I came back to it and organised how I would approach this. I made notes, did some research and highlighted words that resontated and that felt uncomfortable. I also made notes about what I was curious about and wanted to know more about. Then I sat with my IPad and just wrote all of this. Unwillingness to follow beaten track. Stubborn, observant, curious, need for space, I don't follow the crowd, I value personal freedom, rebellious, revolutionary., deeply offended by violence and injustice of any kind. Competitive without being combative. harmony, peace and sharing are important to me. Like to be with people as much as I like to be on my own. Battling between heart and head, indecisive, compromise too much which can lead to resentment. Self discipline can be challenging. Need structure and order to function. Mind loves learning. Resourceful and deep thinker. Notices and observes everything. Intellect influenced by feelings. Tolerrant. Can be complaining and has nervous energy… takes on too much sometimes. Can be overindulgent. Delights in sensual pleasure. Easily influenced by loved ones. Dreamer. Likes to work alone. Contemplative. Creative. Fights and perseveres. All of the above and more describes how I navigated this entire process! I don't feel stuck any more but I am more curious and want more information about a couple of areas that seem to be important to 'moving on'. This was so fascinating to map out from first contact with the arrival of this note and to my arriving at this point. I have not reached my destination but I am still travelling. Thank you Alice🙏🏼❤.

I walked 7.8 miles today! I am surprised and happily tired for it. I walked in Greenwich and in stone circles and watched the City of London unfold and spread far and wide. I walked in the sun and walked past shops that called to me to go in and gleefully look at the colours, shapes and I felt the pull but I walked on past Greenwich Market and into the park and uphill to the Observatory. I felt the sun on my skin and felt my breath tighten as I walked up hills and felt the tension in my thighs as I walked down hills and steep streets. I was with my tribe and I walked purposefully in silence and sometimes in conversation. We walked for four hours and I was so present in my body and to my surroundings that it provided the energy to walk. I watched the light dancing in the trees and spent time in one of the oldest cemeteries where I saw headless angels and headstones that were pointing in many directions as the land was sinking and dipping due to the passing of years. Trees and vines climbed around and encircled these graves and stones where the names and dates were only just visible. A sense of the sacred pervaded the entire walk. On returning home to the other side of London, I rest tired and smiling knowing that my body travelled and moved and experienced this City in a new and different way. My Birth Day was the day I entered into Therapy and became present to myself. My walk today was with two women I trained with over 23 years ago on my first Psychotherapy Training. We spent time today as if no time had passed. The comfort and the sharing was effortless and so right that I realised how much of a 'turning point' that stage of my life was. These women were a part of that birthing process and today standing in a stone circle with them it reminded me of the cycles of life. Birth, Death and time. We walked in a full circle today and spent time in a sacred stone circle and spoke of the cycles that we experienced. All now in Menopause and a different stage of womanhood. I felt this was an honouring of my tribe and a family that I was birthed into. My birth family is one experience but allowing myself to be birthed into my tribe of woman is what matters to me. My daughter was conceived months after my training was finished. So much was conceived and birthed as a result of this and I honour this as A Birth Day. My name is Donna Maria LoiolaI was born in London Paddington on January 22nd 1965. I don't know the time. My mother was Julia Hill and my father David Ali.

I look down at the wet sand and dig my toes in. It is cool and grainy. The time is early morning, around 7am and when I look up the sun is hiding behind clouds so it isn't hot yet but comfortable on my skin. I see the long empty stretch of beach on either side of me and in front of me the expanse of the sea! The old man to my left is walking slowly, very slowly and he raises his hand beckoning me over to him. My grandfather with silver grey hair and dark Indian skin waits for me as I run towards him. Noone one else is on the beach yet, I see only a couple of stray dogs, skinny and boney watching us carefully. My feet make deep imprints in the sand when I run and I follow the footprints already made by grampa. I hear myself panting and at the same time I breathe in the fresh sea air. I hear the waves as they land on the beach and taste the salt of it all on my lips and tongue. I see blues, greens, browns and white in the sea as it moves towards us and away from us. I see the wall of coconut trees that line the long, very long stretch of beach and hear the wind in the branches as they sway and rustle rhythmically. My grandfather's smile makes me fill with glee. The space is vast and appears unending. I can't see where the beach ends. It looks like it just goes on and on and on. I see the clear line of the horizon on the sea . I can reach out and draw the line in the air it is so straight and clear. As we walk long side each other my grandfather talks, he calls me by my nickname, findy ( as a result of a self calming habit of touching my lips to get to sleep with my finger that I call my findy.) he is asking questions about school, friends . He sounds interested and I just want to be there with him and not speak. I hear myself answering the questions in short answers, monosyllables. He nods his head and we come across a dead coconut leaf, long, brown and soaked through with water. As we look we see the leaves rustle and move and

I have a bittersweet relationship with social media and the digital world. I rely on it and the role that it plays for me is to 'keep connection'. I have learned to make use of it in a way that keeps me ' in touch' with friends far and near. I love its immediacy! And wonder also about how it can distance one from another and even from oneself. It is a great way to escape but also a great way to invite and use for reflection. This whole exercise for example. I waited till Edward went off to his football before I sat to reflect and write. I didn't want to exclude him on Sunday morning and to not be present with him but I felt the itch and pull to get to my IPad and this. I found myself wishing he would go quickly so I could start. It was both exciting and annoying. Exciting as I feel I am learning and uncovering so much as I go through this process. Annoying that the pull was so strong and I was being pulled away from 'being' with him. I recognize that I couldn't be doing this without digital, social media and I don't like that it pulls me away into a different space that feels more internal and exclusive than being in my surroundings. I am sat on my deck with the sun's warmth on my skin. I have music playing and I am on the computer. I love that I can do this without having to move out of my space especially as I have my physical limitataions. It has given me opportunities! It keeps me connected with myself and with you. I am so grateful for digital media, social media as it keeps me 'connected' to myself and to others. I learn through it, I communicate with it, I paint with it and explore with it. I was on the train on Thursday coming back from work and as I sat on the train, I looked around and I am not exaggerating, every single person in the carriage had their head down either on a laptop, iPad or phone. Some people had headphones on, some were texting away, some talking and all were in their own little world. I did not have any eye contact from anyone. I felt really annoyed by the insularity and felt the pull to take my phone out. I decided to just sit and watch… I wanted to see what was rising in me. I felt excluded and alone. That sense of being excluded made me want to reach for my phone and I realized I was only wanting to do so because I felt alone. I wanted to 'connect' with someone, something of interest. I felt a different sense of aloneness sitting there on a train full of people. Attention was elsewhere. It was focussed in and out via digital devices. It was not in the immediate space, environment around the people. I do it myself and know that I am cutting off and going somewhere more comfortable. I have my music, blogs, podcasts etc and they keep me interested but they also keep me away from being 'present' to myself and my immediate environment. I battle with this! I meditate to have a stronger sense of presence. I run creative workshops to help people explore their internal and external spaces and I know that pull of the digital world either for solace, connection or retreat. I value it and the fact that I can speak to loved ones in Trinidad and Brasil, I can FaceTime and see them. I can have dinner with them and discuss important issues or have full belly laughs. As I said before I love the immediacy of the connection and contact. I am also aware that it can isolate and divide. I see people in the same room on their own devices and doing such separate things. I realize that I determine how I use it for contact or seclusion. It works for both and I am responsible for its place in my life. For me, It is all about how I view it and what I am using it for. I am grateful for it! And I hate its intrusion sometimes. As I said, bittersweet!

Traction. The Loss of it. Slippages… I want contact! I need contact! And I want space! Embodied ambivalence. I am sat on my bed tapping away on the keypad then pausing. Long pauses, then fingers move again rapidly stopping and starting. I am stopping and connecting with my thoughts, my feelings and wanting to get it right. It is here that I get stuck! The battle in me commences. I hear the should in my head and my body wants to flow and not stop start, stop start! I breathe in and breathe out, the sound of an ambulance's siren wails loudly as it goes by and I breathe again. I see myself sat on a single bed in a small room. It is a hostel room in Kensington, very far away from the Caribbean island where space is everywhere. It is a small and clinical room. It is home and not home as there is no heat from the sun and no sound of people walking by in the streets with strong broad Trinidadian accents. I feel alone again. I know this place, this space, this aloneness. I am surrounded by other rooms all very alike and each inhabited by young women from all over the world. This is a hostel run by the Catholic Nuns in Kensington. They are everywhere and instead of feeling comforted but this I feel trapped. I don't know why. I am used to being around them. I have been surrounded by them since little. Primary School, Secondary School and Now! I have been pushed out of my nest, my Caribbean nest and landed in a cold, clinical and very different nest. I take the lift down to the ground floor and walk across the gardens to the main building where the dining room and Nuns reside. The food is bland, colourless and flavourless. Most of it is potatoe and dishes that look so bland and lacking in any pleasure. I miss my currys and stew chicken, coconut bread, red mango, dumplings and home cooked food. I am 19 years old and missing home. Home is not the house I lived in. It is the Island I love. It is the multi ethnicity, multi religious society I miss with all of the festivals like the HIndu Diwali, Muslim feasts for prayers and Mouloods that occurred with family and friends. I may have been surrounded by the Nuns and their Catholic thinking but it was diluted by the Hindu festivals, the Muslim festivals, the Baptist singing, the African Django dancing and the raw sexuality of the Carnival parties. Here in this place, this admittedly beautiful tame environment, it is different. I am different and I feel alone. I eat the food, I don't like it but I am hungry because I feel cold. So I eat! I eat and I have to buy more clothes as I gain weight and I feel the heaviness of my body and that it is moving slower and less easier in the layers of clothing. I don't want to be here. I want my room back, where I could hear the dogs running around outside the house and hear the carnival music playing in the distance. I miss hearing the rain beating down on the roof. The rain is lighter here. It wets me and makes me cold unlike the rain in Trinidad that cools me down and stings my skin when it lands. It makes noise and comforts me. The rain here is frustrating. It lands lightly touching but not touching me. I want the contact of the raindrops. I want to feel it land, make contact. Everything seems to be more refined and quieter. I prefer to hear it and feel it. This only adds to my aloneness. My mother is dead. My father is remarried and has sent me to London. My brother has gone to Toronto, Canada. We are broken up and broken down. As I walk back to my room I know that I cannot go back to Trinidad or to what was my home. I have been banished and I am not welcome back. I did not believe my stepmother when she told me this. I did not think my father would let it happen. It did! I want contact and I want space. I don't want to be alone and I don't want any contact either. I am so confused and so hungry for colour, heat, flavour and movement. My body misses the dancing, the beaches, the sunshine, the rain and the taste of the tropical island I called home. I have ended up here again. I see myself sat on my bed and my fingers are tapping away furiously. I have colourful paintings on the wall, scarves and bedding that are colourful and bright. It is raining outside and it is that light frustrating rain that does not make a sound but lands and wets everything through and through leaving a cold and clammy sensation. The skies are grey but there is the scent of incense and the remnants of last nights dinner in the air. Silky cushions are dotted around the house. I often slide my hands over them as i pass by. Flowers with strong scent sit in my space and crystals sit in the windows catching light and making rainbows in different rooms. 30 years later I am making my home my own. I can make it . I have made it. My nest, my space and contact in every sense.

And you have read my mind again Alice in these prompts! The biggest transformation that has taken place for me these past few days was that I picked up the phone and called my Father. I made contact after 9 months of deliberately cutting him off and out of my life. The conversation was very different. I spoke from a place of compassion for myself and clarity about my boundaries. I told him I loved him but that I hurt knowing that he could not be the kind of Father I needed and wanted. I heard his pain and I heard his limitations. I understood his fear and I accepted that he loves me in the only way he knows how. He is broken and I am broken but we are putting the pieces back together again. We are doing this with care, with trepidation to a degree and more awareness of each other. I know now how I need to protect myself and be true to my little girl. She was abandoned repeatedly and is very sensitive to loss and rejection. She in turn rejected and pushed her father away out of hurt and longing. It is not a coincidence that this was a nine month period. Gestation, nesting, transforming, soup, nourishment, repairing what is broken. That is what is sitting with me right now. This has been a truly enlightening and insightful process Alice. I would not have done this if it was anyone else. This felt right from the beginning and each step has felt purposeful. The synchronicity and the flow has been deeply moving. I have sat and sobbed and laughed and felt alive. Thank you.

I just realized after reading this prompt how I seem to be quite organically moving in this direction. I spoke in the previous note of the women in my life being my tribe and I see that prompt 6 invites the feminine! I love the female form in all its stages of life. Growing up in the Caribbean I was surrounded by big strong black women who wore their forms with pride and strength. I love my women friends and appreciate their presence in my life. I see how my daughter has formed her friends and the sisterhood she experiences and I feel proud of her and the tribe she has and is creating for herself. My experience of the feminine is earthy, full, loud, BIG, powerful and surrounded by love. My inner feminine is more comfortable in this body now. It is looking after this form a lot better than before. I have had to reach in to touch and encourage the wounded little girl in me who wanted to be adored and celebrated. Thank goodness my experience of the feminine in my childhood and in Trinidad and in my family was strong, soft, powerful and loving ! It is this that saved me and helped me to find a love. I love the wench in me, the mother in me, the wild woman in me. I have nourished my feminine energy and I am blessed to have a man in my life who celebrates her and journeys alongside her with glee. He has seen the witch, the kali, the frightened manipulative little girl and the bitch in me. And he still stands there with his arms open. I pushed him away once, determined to prove to myself that I was unloveable but he stayed hovering waiting for me to move through my rage and anger. He loved me through it all and still held my hand. My inner feminine has experienced great healing with this man. He makes me laugh out loud and we play together often. I am enough with him and for him. I posted some images before of the female form. I like drawing the female form as it brings me great comfort. I have clay images of women around my house so that I can touch and honour their beauty in the varied shapes and forms. I celebrate the feminine in my life and I feel so much richer for it. My female friends have taught me well by being themselves and by embracing their feminine Selves. I have taken part in ritual and cackled with my women friends. We have cried together and held each other gently and strongly. I look forward to more this!

Holding each other is what I am left with. My body responds by pulling the covers over me and creating a more cosy space on my bed. An array of Colours come to mind and I want to see the Peacock's feathers and hear the music playing. It feels like an invitation to a co created space where secrets are being shared. Not bad secrets but treasured secrets and I feel excitement and hesitation. I don't want to dishonour or disrespect this place. It is almost like a temple and I want to light incense and a candle to pay my respects. Raw and honest encounters feed me. Dialogues with joy, pain, rage and disgust are allowed. They are necessary for me to connect. If there is no dialogue then I will find a way to connect and make contact.

Transformation occurs once full contact is experienced. Full contact brings so much with it, awareness, sensitivity and emotion. Holding all of that with care and consideration I can move in any direction I choose. I choose to transform the following in my life with an awareness from this process and the insight I have gained. I accept that I am an Artist and I can share my work with sensitivity and heart so that the audience can (if able to) have full contact with me and my offerings. I am transforming my belief that I should not ask for monetary exchange for my creative experiences. I am sharing and open to receiving appreciation in the form of monetary value. I do not have to suffer through this. I can have what I want. I have every right to ask for what I want and to make it happen. I may not have been planned… my parents did not really want me and religion and their fear meant that I was brought into this world. I am transforming the belief that I was /am not wanted. I am meant to be! I am meant to feel! I deserve LOVE. I am LOVE. I want LOVE. My transformational desires all boiled down to one thing really. I want to transform my limiting beliefs about what I deserve. I want to express a need and I want to meet it without shame and any sense of desperation. Creative living as an Artist. Home by the sea. Good health. Connection with likeminded Souls and Sisters.