Now thinking of the space I have given to men inside my body, allowing them to fill me up… take my sacred space, my Yoni. Filling me with them, not allowing space. Then when they have left my Yoni and my bed how I close that space, make it mine again. Allowing space for the next one…! This is my very bizarre Krishna chant box… is this love? ❤❤❤My picture of Amma in the bathroom, I believe she is pure love, but I wonder now if she really is. ❤❤❤

So beautiful to hear your voice yesterday… you have a lovely voice, soothing, sure, curious, reflective, poised and kind… Not sure if this morning notes got through to you as I can't see them now. A nest, a place of going within, escaping from what lies outside. A space to be with my thoughts and feelings, a place to shut out the world. My spare bedroom/ dressing room is my nest room, it's full of me. Clothes, shoes, perfume, trinkets, bits and bobs… all mine and I love to surround myself with them. They have the same energy and resonance of me. A place to take my tea on the morning as I get ready for work or a place to go and read. It's important for me to have this little space. For me it needs to be a little space, big doesn't work as a nest. At times I build a nest with sheepskins for myself and John to make love. To snuggle up on the floor in our nest, to touch, hold, make love and just be. To shut out the world and allow this time together is joyous. I have a nest in the country too, a special place I go to to contemplate the world at large and work through any worries and concerns. It's my contemplation nest, full of bird song, earth, trees and animal sounds. I love nests I make them in the classroom for children when they need to be quite and restful away from the huddle and bustle. Nests are a place of safety, a place I go to go within, to reflect, to hold space for myself and my thinking mind. A nest is my place to unwind from the day and reality. A nest is a place of deep connection with myself and only I can invite people in… if I wish. I have a bedroom/dressing room that is my nest. It's full of my stuff, collections of me. My clothes, jewellery, perfume, trinkets and bits and bobs. I make a nest out of sheepskins for my beloved and I to touch and make love, candle lit and calm. Shutting the world out, our time to be alone and deeply connect to each other. Nests are more than a home or house. It's a special space. I have a nest in the woods, a contemplation nest. I go there when I'm worried or concerned. A nest to clear the mind of stuff. Sometimes I retreat to my car an automobile nest, held my it's metal to think as I drive. Nests are so important to me, shutting out the world in my life is important to me. My work nest until the summer. Creating a nest for children to feel safe, wanted and loved.

They stand and hold each other for a moment. What is the moment? The moment in the darkness, lit by streetlights, rain falling gently. Soaking slowly to the skin. Knowing eyes meet, gaze in wonder and excitement of each other. Undressing and touching gaze through layers of clothes and time. Wanting to touch but scared to touch. Holding, pulling in, being nearer, heart beating, breathing in and out! Why did you ever go away from me? Never will we allow space, time and secrets to come between us again. Young love Pulled away Fierce

A picnic in the woods for John and I. Great Darby woods. Invites to be written on a pebble and placed by his shoes that morning. Old fashioned sandwiches, cake, crisps and a flask of tea. Back to basics, packed in a basket with a blanket to sit on. Going to wear a 1950 tea dress and going to give him love heart sweets. I would like to receive a bunch of roses, but that's probably not going to happen . I might suggest we make love in the woods, he might say no! We might be caught! It's going to be a silent pic nic.. just listening to nature, and being in touch with each other. Eye gazing! 🌿🌹🌿🌹🌿🌹🌿🌹🌿🌹🌿🌹🌿 Waiting for the weather to be warm and dry.. my meal is now going to be me, on my own, eating my own words. Photos to come soon… Sorry I forgot totally about taking photos. I ate letter spaghetti on toast and made words… then literally ate my words. I don't think I've had this meal since I was 12… loved it. Loved playing with my food… getting messy fingers… licking them and eating the tomato sauce soaked soggy toast. Delicious!!

I invite you to complete the following sentences as you feel moved to: I never touch… Vodka! Ever!! I like to touch… myself, especially my thighs. I like to touch my beloved! I am completely in touch with… nothing. I have felt touched by… kindness of friendship. My dear old Dad for his total acceptance of all that I do, he's 98! I wish I had touched… can't think of anything! Maybe an odd man here and there who slipped through my fingers!! 😘 I like being touched on… a Saturday and Sunday morning by my beloved. In the week I'm too knackered!! I swear I never touched… the broken vase I was blamed for breaking in my early years. I left a mark on… my ex partners. I am touched every time… I see my mum in the care home that she lives in. I like to touch base by… meeting up with friends for coffee and cake. Having a pint of bitter with my brother in The Boat. I like to touch base with… friends and my two children who constantly amuse me with their everyday stories of life. The past touches me like… a swelling wave of emotion that leaks from my eyes. How much am I in touch with myself? Work in progress, the older I get the more complex I am. Like peeling an onion… will I ever be in touch with myself?? Can I see your hands? Images: Here are mine… I touched his heart and soul! ❤How did I touch his heart and soul? He touched my heart and soul! How did he touch my heart and soul? Did our hearts touch? Did our souls touch? What did they feel? What did they say? What did they see? Will they always touch? When does touch stop touching?

Crying, red, limbs slithering, not knowing pink from blue, soldier from doll. I am a unique being unburdened by gender a perfect being waiting for the shackles of life to tighten around my perfect little body. Freedom to be me… for me to decide what I am at any given moment in my life. I might change, morph into what I decided to be at any time. Who decided that because I have a vagina I'm a girl? Why can't you be a boy with a vagina? A child with a vagina or penis… why label? Sleep time… back tomorrow! I was born of the earth from not just my mothers nest but of Mother Earth too. The earth is my mother she carries me always. Suspended in the fluid of aspirations, hopes and dreams. A time of being deeply connected to what lies within and without. Giver, provider and life energy connecting to the universe. Deeply held and protected… a life force beginning to emerge, break through and belong within a family, a village (it takes a whole emotionally healthy village to raise a child) to grow into a powerful energy fuelled autonomous self. Seeker of true identity and being. Big girl beads!! xxxxCatapillar to butterfly xxx It's my life and it needs sorting… this task was a real eye opener, thought provoking and something that will make me take action and get my life sorted out to balance the itsy bitsy shitty bits!! 🌻🌻🌻

I settle in my nrew leather chair to listen, finding it difficult to filter out the noise of the world. Eyes closed, hands on heart I allow the sounds to sootn me. I find it gentle but a little amusing, loving her voice and resonating with the worlds. It stops. I get up leave through the front door and walk. I decided not to take my phone, I don't want to be disturbed but wish now I could take pictures. Maybe tomorrow I'll retrace my steps and take some photos. Walking down the street, past doors and windows that shelter the lives of others I feel my presence inside my body. I'm being born passing down the tight opening into the light. I'm stuck and find it hard to move, I'm afraid and don't like this place. I need to move. All of a sudden I feel cold, metal arms pulling at me, moving me, muffled sounds, I think are voices, calling to me. Wanting me to be born into the space of life. I enter the world in slow animated motion. My face hurts, the metal hands tear at my skin. I'm so fragile and tiny, didn't they know they would hurt me. I know I have two older brothers waiting for me, one with a big metal machine that he sits on, I like the noise it makes, it's exciting. My other brother seems gentle, calm and caring. He's going to be near me, look after me and make me giggle. At this point, I'm walking past the building I was born in. My first journey in my own physical body, leaving through these doors, into this space. St Mary's maternity hospital,… red thread factory, I was born here as was my son, and the mid wife who helped me into the world also helped my son into the world. What would it be like to re live my life from day one. Would I still travel down the same roads? Meet the same people? Would I be me? Or a different me and what would she look like and be like?? Has being stuck in birth formed patterns of being stuck in life? What allows the stuck to flow? Will it ever? Probably not. Who knows? This place is my turning point, the space it all begun, my life. This unique life. It's my space, my life. I am Amanda Joy Louise Reeves I was born in Melton Mowbray on the 24th October 1964, time unknown. My parents are Doreen Mary and Gerald Posnett.

Hello lovely, Sorry for being late in these last few replies. Life has been shit one way or another… but hey ho! Wow! I read and re read my chart, it made me cry! It's me in all my ugly nastiness, stripped to the core. I know it's there at times and it does slip out at times, much still to my alarm. If we are born with this preprogrammed self, can we ever truly change our behaviour? I've written down my noticings on this, bits that jump out. I hope you don't mind my scrawl? For me it allows a more fluid thinking process. At times over the past few days this inner work has stabbed deep into my soul… I thank you for helping me to realise that I am work in progress! Love you, love your work.

Hello lovely many of my Aha moments have also been wrapped up with house moves, especially in my adult life. They have started with trouble, included lots of traction and have lead to transformation. The theee T's of life! Childhood trouble… I'm going to enjoy school. Crying in the corner of the playground on my first day at school… mum was called… I was told to grow up and that she didn't want to be called again. I'm on my own. My brother is my protector. By brother showing me his penis… don't tell mum and dad. It's a secret I have to keep. I'm a tom boy. Being hit on the forehead by a air gun pellet… it could have blinded me. Don't play with air pistols. I'm a woman. Telling mum my periods had started… that's disgusting… I'm on my own. Mum will Nurture and love me. Telling mum I had period pain… run around the block. I'm still on my own. Beads, bangles and boys. Isn't this true! Maybe it isn't. It's true! I'm having sex and enjoying it. Mum finding the pill in my bedroom… only slags have sex (I was 16)… hide them better. Yeah! leaving home. Going to nursing school and living away from home… girls have sex and have fun. I resent going home. I want to make a nest of my own. Buying a house with my boyfriend… this is boring. My bed lie in it!! Get married it's the proper thing to do. I actually don't like him… I'm free to leave. Peace, tranquility. Can I be a mum. Im not good enough. I am good enough. Job well done. Two children, alone. I can do this, I'm strong. I did' I'm ok on my own… but he wants to move in… I'm not sure… shit too late. Why did I go along with it. I just want to get out of this relationship. The stories we tell ourselves. He's going… peace and tranquility. I can look after mum. I'm breaking. Mum sectioned. Care home. I want sex. This is empty. I'm worth more. I still want sex. I need to grow up, I'm nearly 50! Get a responsible job, I did. I hate data analysis. Walked out. Alone but happy. Meeting by beloved. This is what love really is. Together. And now… Together. Is it right? Yes. Forever, what is forever???

My relationship is a total love, hate one. I try to have screen free days but it gets impossible to do it. Life revolves around an online schedule of dates and times. I feel dictated to by a cyber God who controls my life, what I should know, what he thinks I need to know and what he can tempt me with.

The film lulled me into a false sense of security by teasing me into thinking it was going to be a relaxing type of meditation. In the back of my mind I was waiting for the impact though, the car crash moment! It never came in the images but the voice was enough. Immediately I felt the pain in the pit of my stomach and remembered my brother who died four years ago. I'm not sure why the sight of the road took me to him, he didn't die in a road crash, but he loved his motorbike. Maybe this was the link. My brother died in hospital two days after Christmas Day following a very short illness of 6 days. I remember staying with him for the last 3 days and nights on this earth. Time was suspended, I was unaware of day or night, date or day. Christmas Day even came and went without a bauble or mince pie. Being in this traction was unbearable knowing I was waiting for his death. When death came so did my pain, overwhelming lose of my big brother. Pain as I had never experienced before, gut renching, vile pain that I physically felt in my whole body. I remember driving home alone from Nottingham to Melton along the post Christmas empty roads (like the ones on the video) and thinking had there been a planet shift and how life would never ever be the same again. The feeling of remembering driving to the hospital with flowers, sweets and lucazade to wish him well and how he would be home very soon. The impact of being told he only had 24 hours to live. (He held on for 72 hours)! The response of my brother who had been told of his fate an hour before me. (He asked the doctors to tell me when I got there, he couldn't tell me himself). Going to his bedside after being told… both knowing, the traction was at breaking point. The traction built until he said, it's a bastard, can you believe it, it's a total bastard! We cried, we laughed, we remembered, we drank Pear Cider until he slipped into a coma only hours before his death. I didn't go back home until the planet shift journey back to Melton. Back to the town that will never be quite the home it was. Suspended time. Void time. Time of untime. Machines going one by one… switched off, no more use! Naked one the sheets, death sheets! Holdings and talkings… laughter and testings. Life traction.

I haven't spoke to you for six months… I'm sorry! You look well, how are you? I'm so happy for you.. well done.. that must have been hard. Listening deeply, the words flow into me rather than over me. Feeling her pain. Her excitement. Her dismay. Her joy. Her hope. Her love. Emotions flow, deeper listening. Opening up… love and gratitude fill the cracks. Pots of herbs, gifts of thanks for listening. Warm hugs and spiced tea with honey. Knowing gaze and silent moments. Love… connection.. friendship… understanding. My dear friend, I love you.

This I have found impossible.. I'm impatient and I probably need hours to do it over many days. I find it diffulcult to seperate some friends from acquaintances and vice versa. Some float in and out of my space. Some acquaintances step into friend mode and some friends step down… it's fluid like life. I have friends who I have known all my life and have helped form who I am and others who step in and out. Paul although an acquaintance is also a friend when we hook up… one of my most influential teachers, so spiritual and a unique man. Kathy my Priestess teacher, reminded me of who I am. Dr Doug who I worked with is a wealth of knowledge, wisdom and understanding of human kind. Preet my Kundalini teacher such a major influence over the past two years. I'd like to come back to this when I have more time.. days to map it out, I also find that I am forgetting names, I can see their faces but can't put a name to it… menopausal fog! Paul in the middle. xxxx

Good evening lovely, My inner feminine is an expansive place that resides in my whole body and out through my energy field. As a Priestess of Rhiannon (Goddess of love, sexuality and sensuality) I have learnt to accept and love myself. Although at times I slip back into my old patterns of self loathing and mind chit chat of not being good enough. With the negative thoughts I can reflect on them now and move forward much quicker than previously. I see myself as a sensual woman who is able to love deeply, in tune with my life and being. When I really feel into that feminine place I feel me, an authentic me, powerful, desiring, fullness of one. I also have a vulnerability of a girl though who at times is scared of who I have become. I call her my inner maiden and she comes out to play, which is fun but sometimes she is naughty and tells the queen me silly stories. The queen then needs to step in and give her a telling off, thank her and put her gently to bed, in a safe and secure place. In reality I think I have only found my real inner feminine since doing a lot of tantric work. Loving myself, being able to raise my own sexual energy, just for me at times. A dance of desire to be me. I love feeling the physical aspect of being feminine, pretty clothes, make up, jewellery, perfume etc etc but I feel so I've and in my body naked, stripped of make up and jewellery and perfume. I think I am at total ease with my naked inner feminine in both aspects. Rhiannon taught me to feel deeply into my heart and feel what is really there. Unfolding the layers of stories that I have told myself over the years. A sacred famine rebirthjng into a more profound and mature me. My sacred feminine is within my core, Yoni and heart and transmits out through every pore of my body. I have just read this and it sounds rambling and messy… sorry, I hope you get the gist. Pink pants hanging up to dry with, by chance my naked belover in the background!! lol perfect timing! This is a large canvas an ex lover many years ago commissioned of me, I was aged 28 at the time, it has been a constant reminder of my inner feminine.

My well being is high… I am lifting… sexually my life is good and my spirituality aligned… my personal growth is growing… my achievements too… along with my self esteem and my home and family children, parents, beloved are firm. My friendships have lessened? My energy is lower as I devote much time to caring… less time for solitude and green fields… my creativity suffers, where is the fun? The finance? My time to be physical? My body love? Plan. Nurture. Delegate. Share. Make it happen. Me… A beautiful old writing desk… a cup of tea.. pencils and pens and colour. Fruit in a bowl. Flowers in a vase. Pink sweet smelling lilies. A red Rhiannon candle. Tiles and time…

Onion. Which one… which day… which feeling… Snake, Serpent shedding transforming, emerging. Different Guises. Frightened child eating confusion. Against the crowd. Good Girl/Bad Girl. Love/Sex Splitting. Silent rehearsals. Thoughts and daydreams. Individual and free. Realising, remembering, reflecting in order to look forward, break free, transform. Space to be. Power to be. Space and power to transform. Praise/Approval. Transparent. In-between. Liminal. Delicate wings. Unfolding possibilities. Lace Wing. Breath of freedom. Space of freedom. Woman of freedom. Serenity. Independent. Holding. SUPER WOMAN. No responsibility. Pure love. Fields, greenness, grass. living and being. Rearranging caterpillar self into a butterfly. Do say show rehearse feed. ‘Amanda whats stopped you running barefoot? Play. Let things go. Be mad. Have fun. Dream big, Be impulsive. Giggle and laugh. Improvise. ‘Yeah ok Girl did good being a good mother and good daughter. ’GIRL did good take it, grasp it, run with it, play with it and swing high! Throw your knickers in the air!!! Little girls calling me. Time to transform. Sweet Girl. Gifts Wise Woman. Sweet dreams. X

My dear friend, I love you. My heart grows bit, relaxes, warms. Guilt subsides. I'm so happy for you. The words flow into me rather than over me. Feeling her pain, excitement, dismay, joy, hope. Her love. In opening up… love and gratitude fill the cracks. Pots of herbs, warm hugs and spiced tea with honey. Knowing gazes. Silent moments. Love. Connection. Understanding. My dear friend, I love you. Beads, boys, bangles, babes…

‘I am safe, I am loved. I am a little butterfly’ Resistance. Pigtales. Horse. Crumply jumper’s yellow cardigan. Milk and syrup. Neat garden. Armchair. Writing on paper… the touch of pencil/pen/hand… the need for handwriting ‘Cixous rejects writing the way most university people conceive of it today—that is, on a computer. It is in the contact with the sheet of paper that sentences emerge. As if coming out with great wing-strokes from a nest hidden beneath the paper (149). Rewriting Baudrillard, she praises a sensorial contact between hand and paper. She writes from the body in such a way…’ The Body That Read the Laugh: Cixous, Kristeva, and Mothers Writing Mother Karina QuinnThe first time I read Hélène Cixous’s The Laugh of the Medusa I swooned. I wanted to write the whole thing out, large, and black, and pin it across an entire wall. I was 32 and vulnerable around polemic texts (I was always copying out quotes and sticking them to my walls, trying to hold onto meaning, unable to let the writing I read slip out and away). You must write your self, your body must be heard (Cixous 880), I read, as if for the hundredth time, even though it was the first. Beads, bangles, boys. 'Everything is possible in Amanda world, the world is ok in Amanda world'. Itsy Bitsy Shitsy bits… My dear friend, I love you.

POWER. All seeing eye. Crying red limbs. Freedom to be me… for me to decide what I am at any given moment in my life. Mother Earth. Gaia. Suspended in the fluid of aspirations. Deeply connected – within without. Held. Protected. Emotionally healthy village. Seeker of true identity and being.

Amanda: I find it difficult to separate some friends from acquaintancesSome float in and out of my space… it's fluid like life. Laughter. Faces. My children. Cuddles. Joy. Humour. Friends who hold that space. The same photos repeat and circulate on the page – I am not sure if they were ‘meant to, but in doing so, they ebb and flo in and out as you describe – fluid like in life…

Amanda: My inner feminine is an expansive place that resides in my whole body and out through my energy field. My sacred feminine is within my core, Yoni and heart and transmits out through every pore of my body. I see myself as a sensual woman who is able to love deeply, in tune with my life and being. When I really feel into that feminine place I feel me, an authentic me, powerful, desiring, fullness of one. I also have a vulnerability of a girl though who at times is scared of who I have become. I call her my inner maiden and she comes out to play, which is fun but sometimes she is naughty and tells the queen me silly stories. The queen then needs to step in and give her a telling off, thank her and put her gently to bed, in a safe and secure place. I SO love that – I have to listen, look after and sometime put her to bed too… A dance of desire to be me. I would like to start doing some tantric work too – I’ve been thinking about this for a while and recently did a PSD course ‘The Invitation’… please recommend… I am at total ease with my naked inner feminine in both aspects. A sacred famine rebirthjng into a more profound and mature me. Your pink pants also look like a beautiful opening vagina… your lovers whole body would fit inside the framing and persective and depth of field of this photograph… lucky him! J Beautiful lush rosy naked woman – poised, coy, ready and calm… Play… Unravelling spaghetti. Tongue tied. Words dissolved. Consumed. Taken back. Ingested. Digested. Discarded. Nutrience.

I love the ‘collage’ of your online communications: Prompts. Pressings. Distractions. Attractions. I’m going to get back on this more as a group later but I love the immediacy of todays sharing – it made me laugh and feel relieved that it is a shared feeling of ‘bombardment and intrigue… ’Thank you XThought you would also like this sharing from Participant 19 she’s only 23 but oh so powerful a WOMAN! How do you feel that your use of social media fulfils and enables a sense of ‘connectedness, of belonging, of identification’ with others? (Jsselsteijn, W and Joy van Baren et al. ‘Staying in Touch’, 2003) 'It is the first and last thing I look at each day. The sense of wider network it brings is a quick fix, at first comforting, a social nourishment. But like all quick fixes the loneliness creeps in when you notice your reliance/addiction becoming so gripping you can't go a minute without feeling the 'twitch'. I read this great book by The Minimalists called Minimalism which coined the term for when your body gets these unstoppable urges to check your electronic device… The twitch. ’Twitch twitter tweet…’

Beads, bangles and boys. Isn't this true! Oh YES it iS!;) Can I be a mum. I'm not good enough. I am good enough. Job well done. Two children, alone. I can do this, I'm strong. I did’. I can look after mum. I'm breaking. Mum sectioned. Care home. I want sex. This is empty. I'm worth more. I still want sex. Me too! Loving your chirrpy toes!!! 😃 Deep encounters. Deep knowing. Deep freedom. Deep trouble. Deep being. Walking.

Thighs. Breasts. Beloved. Acceptance. Weekend loving. Broken vase. Caring home. Care home. Coffee. Cake. A pint of bitter in the boat. Waves of emotion. Raw energy. Skin shining and rippling like the grooves in a shell. Tender touch. Flowers. Peeing. Squelching. Thumbs up. Pretty good for 98!  Happy man. 5 times a man.

Excited was how I felt last night and today well ‘wow wow wow’. Thank you for some incredible, moving and heart felt sharing’s I feel totally privileged for your honest, vulnerability and desire to share and grow thank you! :) I wanted to summarise and share some of what arose as a collective before I post tonights new Day 2 prompt for the next 24hrs… I loved this quote from one of you it felt particularly relevant and funny! It summarises the love and humour that needs to rest between us as 'humans relating' and working together within this ‘serious’ research project so thank you… 😃 I will be analysing all responses over the 21-days in detail as individuals and across the group and with particular methods but as my intuitive summary back to you all at this stage here are some of your wonderful words as food for thought: The in-between. The interweaving nature of life. Closeness. Intimacy. Love. Anger. Loss. Splitting. Insight. Courage. Energy. Passion. Softness. Self-care Self-abuse Self-harm. Self appreciation. Craving and allowing. Self permission. Allowing another in totally what will they take in return? Difficult. Light and dark. Give and take take and give go round and round. Head/Heart… Voice. Loss. Love. Theft. Confusion. Happiness. Sadness. Hard lens. Saying ‘Yes’ feeling ‘No’. Total beauty. Insight evolving. Purpose. Loving lists. Hating Lists. Loving numbers infinitely. The shared solitude of deeper feelings. Loss. Self-care. Self-acceptance. Situational acceptance. Solitude/loneliness. Like sperm whizzing across the countryside out and home. Duty. Death. Beauty. Anger. Pain. Drink. Syncronicity. Memories. Action as doing or letting be… Beauty. Aging. Eccentric or needy. Pragmatism. Keep what is worth keeping and with a breath of kindness blow the rest away… Not carrying but standing beside another. Allowing v controlling. Contact. Connection. Acceptance. Deeply moved. Quality – feeling… Slow downSelf love. Allow, accept, present self. Quality of contact. Space for contact. Big green eye. Tunnel. Vision. Hope. Presence of another. Deep genuineness. Concentration. Discipline. The long view of compassion through shortcomings. Languages of love – vary… Digging deep… Emotional and physical affection… Allowing and ‘allowing’… control… Being reflected back. Feeling through the body. Creating a space of potential. Loving and playing as difficult and conflicted. Yoga. Up and coming transition. Hurt. Openess to grow in friendship. Noticing. Togetherness. Quietness. Change. Sadness. Attending to self. Support. Self permission. Heart. Heartache. Misjudgement. Aggression. Depression. Vulnerability. Isolation. Disconnect. Empowering. Positive gifts. Self worth, self esteem. Relaxed. Non-confrontational. Harmonious. Thriving. Experiences, disappointments and hurt get in the way… Love as fleeting. Attention giving. attention/ignoring acceptance/rejection appreciation/disinterest affection/coldness allowing/forbidding. Never giving up. Growing up. Stealth. Non attention – allows the unexpected to rise. Personal choice. Ephemerality. Respect. Beautiful selfies. Healthy attention – gaining or losing. Immaturity. Insecurity. Growth? Wisdom? Social Media. And to finish today before I post for tomorrow- a mini insight into my world: I gave attention today to my son age 13 who was ill, I had to accept I was not going to have my day alone which was hard. In order to manage my own needs too and yet remain affectionate, I gifted him with a box of ‘naughty’ treats so that I could still go to yoga and value my own space and time. After eventually getting my two boys to bed (one has again just reappeared = gritted teeth emoji) and after reading all your wonderful contributions at 22. 30 I accepted that I indeed needed a big G’n'T and to finish the box of pringles to relax… give myself over to this process too and settle in for the night for as long as it takes… A beautiful challenge thank you all and goodnight! Alice

Dark Place. Affairs in order. Slips. Shell. Panic. 1) Not overwhelmed/panicing/stop feeling ‘people out get me’… over analyse over think worry about what people think or say. 2) Free up head space for me to shine… Brother dying. 3) IM GOING TO BOOK A HOLIDAY. My Passport Application! Whoopee! 😃 How positive… (my little BIG transformation). ‘Im going to go on holiday with John warm, relaxing… 4) Not beating myself up about trying to be ALWAYS perfect… the clouds obscuring a flawed reality… 5) My own space time thinking space… the double edge sword… if allow myself space to think I overanalyse… ever decreasing circles… hook back into my meditation… 6) Kelmarsh Accessible courses in beautiful surroundings… I always like to have the last word I don’t know why maybe because I was so silenced as a child I am going to ALLOW John to have the last word… sometimes… Listen Listening… Being. Presence. To allow myself to be present when listening. I found myself on the verge of tears so beautiful so transformational work. And just listening to you now too I am so touched back by this your words, kindness, honesty and receptivity. Tears pricked my eyes and my heart moved. Thank you for noticing me too a girl so often silenced who now as a woman needs to listen and speak her own truth too and not be frightened to hold my own space without fear of others taking it away from me by stepping in too quickly with my opinion or voice I too will practice sitting back and knowing no-one can take me away for me anymore. Love. Alice XX(When I logged o not the Kelmarsh Site it was advertising a family weekend in June when I have just Henry because barn is away so thank you! 😃 I think I might just take him 😃 Wanting to touch but scared to touch. Never will we allow space, time and secrets to come between us again. Blue butterfly eyes.

Amanda: Attaching to the mother girl child me. Sharing life blood breath. Anger, rage, wounding, resentment. Further widening of the space between… Pain. Elastic space – tightening and loosening for years… Trying to evolve together ‘outside’ – rigid blueprints, DNA, enactmentsDeclining withering mother womb. Girl Child. Gin Child. Surrogate Mother host. A time of gestation, caring, loving and reforming at last! Work in progress of reciprocal healing… loving, visiting, providing… understanding… accepting… An amazing ‘vulvic’ image – I’d like to work with you more on this mapping that is forming… Nothing is wrong. This is DEEP and real and I see you and I am sorry that I have been mothering so many ‘participant’ off spring that my contact has been more distant these last few days – have missed you! Holding Dad… smothering his floor with my ‘rantings’… Oh wow! Now I read this: ‘I know I have a real desire to make a 3D yoni with words suspended in its open – yes we can make this happen!!! Maybe it can even talk!! :) Loving you. Beautiful to see you and your Dads hands together… ‘The space I have given to men inside my body, allowing them to fill me up… take my sacred space, my Yoni. Filling me with them, not allowing space. Then when they have left my Yoni and my bed how I close that space, make it mine again.’ Beautiful Rhiannon!!! Also have you read/seen these?

Difficult. LIFT. My children. Polly and Jack. My parents. Keeping an eye on their wellbeing. PROPELLING FORWARD. John DRAG. Push and Pull. My parents. THRUST. Knowing that one day my parents won’t be here and I will be free. GROUNDING. Work with the vulnerable. How lucky I am, how blessed I am. AFLOAT Yoga. Wine. Chocolate. Laughter. Joy. Sex. PROPELS Humour. Sense of change. Cycle of life. (Acceptance). NOURISHMENT Yoga. Wine. Sex. Time with family. Giggles. Green fields. Earth between toes. Adaptability. Waking up as a wife and partner. Working as a teacher. Home as a daughter. Home as a wife. How do I change direction? Strength. Stamina. Resilience. Fluidity. Being able to transform an due call these things in one day. ALLOWING… Allowing them to take flight and be… Transformatrix I like that… X

Lulled but in the back of my mind I was waiting for the impact the car crash moment! Staying with [my brother] for the last 3 days and nights on this earth. Time suspended. Unaware of day or night, date or day. Being in this traction was unbearable. Knowing I was waiting for his death. The traction was at breaking point. The traction built until he said, it's a bastard, can you believe it, it's a total bastard! We cried, we laughed, we remembered, we drank Pear Cider until he slipped into a coma. Suspended time. Void time. Time of untime. Machines off. Death sheets. Holdings and talkings. Laughter and testings. Life traction. ‘A planet shift and how life would never ever be the same again'.

I often sit and wait then Pounce. I like getting Dirty. Paula Rego. The Caged Passionate Daughter of Perpetual Restlessness. What a beautiful title for your own fairytale… I think this is your piece emerging now… Love you! Love your work too. Sorry life has been shit! Wanna come to hear her read with me? 'The God of Small Things' was/is my favourite book I can’t remember why really but I know it moved me and has resonated with me ever since 1995… If you fancy it I can sort tickets and pick you up form Melton 5. 30/6pm on this coming Tuesday June 6th… Will Facebook you too! 😃

Birth Walk. Walking down the street, past doors and windows that shelter the lives of others I feel my presence inside my body. I'm being born passing down the tight opening into the light. I enter the world in slow animated motion. My face hurts, the metal hands tear at my skin. I'm so fragile and tiny, didn't they know they would hurt me. Red thread factory, the midwife who helped me into the world also helped my son into the world. What would it be like to relive my life from day one? Stuck unstuckness friction traction adhesive glue. This place is my turning point, the space it all begun, my life. I am Amanda Joy Louise Reeves.

Amanda: Day 1: Energy. Passion. Softness. Self-care Self-abuse Self-harm. Self appreciation. Craving and allowing. Self permission. Allowing in totally what will they take in return? Difficult. Light and dark. Give and take take and give round and round. Head/Heart… Voice. Day 2: Drawings – beautiful immediacy. Safety. Choice of boundary. Collections of me. Deep connection. Special space. A contemplation nest. Metal nest. Colour. Holding.