Day 1
1. Attention. Too much, too little. I have always sought attention. Positive and even negative. Irritating habits of goading, and extrovert activity. I was the middle child and desperate to be noticed. I gained that attention outside the family circle and that need drove me to seek friends. My older brother is 7 years older and the younger was 7 years younger. I soon realised that I could get the attention I craved from friends. I have a couple of friends I have known for nearly 70 years. Others for 50, 40, 30 etc. They are the sort of friends one can call for help at midnight. I am a single person so these friends are important. I also have a group of friends and acquaintances about town. This ‘community connection’ gives me good feelings of acceptance.
As an ex-teacher I found that positive attention and affirmation reaped great rewards. Paying attention to what the child was paying attention to eased the next steps of learning.

2. Acceptance. Over the years my physical abilities have diminished. I have Muscular Dystrophy. In the past I loved walking, cycling, sleeping out, travelling the world. When talking with a friend they were surprised to hear that I had been skiing. People assume that I have always been in a wheelchair and had no previous able bodied life. I also cycled France and Spain, hitchhiked Europe, walked Hadrian’s Wall. I now use a wheelchair and a shower chair for the bathroom/toilet. I try not to look back and regret. I have great memories. I try to move positively on to the next experience. Fighting against the inevitable progress of the disease only brings dissatisfaction. Acknowledging and accepting allows me to move on and enjoy life.

3. Appreciation of me, others, life. Everyone loves to be appreciated. Sometimes it doesn’t even need to be publicly shown. I love the idea of buying forwards. If the world feels negative I buy two cappuccinos instead of one. One for me and one to be given to the next person who orders a coffee. The Barista now knows that this is given anonymously. It was good to watch the look of pleasure on a stranger’s face and some have even then passed on the same gift to the next stranger. I began doing this after the Westminster stabbing. Mankind is so giving and this helps me take pleasure in life. January and February are bad times for me. I feel the cold. When we have a rare sunny day then I wrap up with a blanket, sweater and coat and go out into the garden. It puts a smile on my face. The warmer weather makes me smile as I go along. That smile is often returned by strangers or friends.

4. Affection. My dearest lifetime friend and I feel deeply for one another in a brother and sisterly way. We are always there for one another. Our histories are interlinked. We came from very different backgrounds. She was born in wartime Berlin of a German mother who was a cabaret artist in the 1930’s. The mother is still alive at the age of 99. My friend is married and I have known her husband for nearly 50 years too. We speak on the transatlantic phone four times a week and write letters, emails and send parcels to exchange books. We have expanded the vision of each other's lives. My parents were working class from the North of England. Dad was a miner. My second family also loved me and gave me a sense of belonging to a greater world. Over the years we had many shared experiences with food, theatre, exhibitions, jazz, classical concerts in New York, Paris, London, Avignon, Italy. We share a great familial affection. I entertained the 85 year old mother in law for 2 Christmases in England. We also have a French extension to the family in Strasbourg and St. Remy. Summers have been spent together with several generations. We are fortunate.

5. Allowing. I am a fiercely independent person, so although I speak of acceptance of my physical condition in a wheelchair I found it difficult to allow people to help. When I first used sticks people would offer to carry my bag. I could always ‘manage.’ Nowadays I hope that I am a little less defensive. Sometimes I let people help me on with my coat or lift potatoes from my supermarket basket. I always thank them for doing their good deed for the day. I hope that it makes them feel as good as they made me feel when they offered help. Giving and accepting/allowing have a two way effect.

Day 2
From childhood we used to make dens/nests. These were made in a variety of ways. We made private enclosures. Another person was always involved.
a) Under the table, struggling across the cross struts, using an ironing blanket across the top of the table.
b) Clothes horse in the garden/back yard with a blanket over the top. Ideal place to eat Sunday lunch. Hot but cosy.
c) Behind the blackcurrant bushes (eating the currants surreptitiously).
d) Secreted in farmers’ hedges where we should not have been.
e) Cardboard boxes, space ships.
f) Sacks used for transporting outwork from a hosiery factory.
g) A friend’s tree house.

All private and secretive, a place for games and toys. Sometimes food, music from a gramophone (wind up). Dens in the garden grew into concerts by the neighbourhood children.
The dens had a feeling of hygge or gemütlichkeit . Cosy enclosing comfort. A place to welcome a circle of friends. A place to be ourselves and experiment. Cowboys and Indians, doctors and nurses. A safe place. As I grew older the rented flat became the new den. Of the many places I lived I recall an old hall split into flats. I had the flat under the stairs. I had a stretch of field which I turned into a garden. Friends would come to share food. We had pancake parties and thanksgivings parties for 18/20 people. There were never enough chairs. The friends sat on cushions but the gatherings were always welcoming. In my own homes or visiting friends books and music became a way of sharing and also recognition of a common soul. The art works in the house were another way to share a common bond.
I am not great at keeping a house tidy, but I would like to think that it is welcoming. My main room is an illuminated light box on a sunny day. The art work comes from friends’ paintings, two small bronzes, Cornish and Japanese ceramics, mosaics, a hanging from Jaipur and a weaving from Montreal. This is all with a comfortable chaos of paper cuttings and things that I can’t put away without help. It is almost an externalisation of me.
Each flat or home works with what is there and the situation can dictate the feeling. My last home was a terraced house with a dining room extension. A great place for New Years Eve parties for 16-18 people. I cooked as friends’ children held their own party in the upper room. (Possibly making their own dens – the story continues.)
The main living room had a fire with a beautifully tiled surround and a mantle piece made by a friend. There was a thick shag wool carpet and a 7’8” bookcase. It was cosy but dark. My present room is open and light. It has a very different feeling to the previous house. The previous farm history of the building is printed in its footprint. Old cowshed and hay barn.
It is just as welcoming as my other homes but in a different way. The rooms are in constant change to deal with my needs. I am disabled but still love to cook from my wheelchair. The kitchen now has an up and down work surface to slide pots across to the hob. I can match this level with the shelves from the oven. Fridge and dishwasher have been carefully chosen for ease of use. The water boiler for tea delivers one cup at a time to save me the effort of lifting the kettle.
The bathroom is now wheelchair accessible with shower chair for shower and loo. Everything is done for ease of usage. I still have friends to dinner but not the large dinners I used to do. The houses have been in constant redesign as the need arose. In a week or two’s time I will have a new gas stove for the main room. It will be operated remotely and make it easier to use without accidents.

I feel that our need for childhood den making is the same expression that is carried into our houses. Our need for commonality helps to change us and develop our own changing personality.

Possible link. Tagore – Crescent Moon. With withered leaves they build their boats. 

Crescent Moon – On the seashore of endless worlds.
On the seashore of endless worlds children meet.
The infinite sky is motionless overhead and the restless water is boisterous. On the seashore of endless worlds the children meet with shouts and dances.

They build their houses with sand, and they play with empty shells. With withered leaves they weave their boats, and smilingly float them on the vast deep. Children have their play on the seashore of worlds.

They know not how to swim, they know not how to cast nets. Pearl-fishers dive for pearls, merchants sail in their ships, while children gather pebbles and scatter them again. They seek not for hidden treasures, they know not how to cast nets.

The sea surges up with laughter, and pale gleams the smile of the sea-beach. Death-dealing waves sing meaningless ballads to the children, even like a mother while rocking her baby’s cradle. The sea plays with children, and pale gleams the smile of the sea-beach.

On the seashore of endless worlds children meet. Tempest roams in the pathless sky, ships are wrecked in the trackless water, death is abroad and children play. On the seashore of endless worlds is the great meeting of children.
Tagore

Possible link. Story – Walk to the Hall.

Colour – flats – Hall flat bathroom. 2 storeys high cold. White walls. Dark green ceiling, gloss lime green door. Not good when sitting on the loo with a hangover.

First flat. A dark place. Cold. Bathroom decorated with Marigold and Geranium in an attempt to bring warmth into the room. It didn’t work. What was I thinking? The small kitchen was white with an aubergine wall. Very 1970’s.

The early experimentation decorating the flats on a limited budget. Helped me to form a feeling of how I wanted to be. Elements of aesthetics from Japan influenced me. Books such as Wabi Sabi by Koren. I only have blinds in the bedrooms. There are no curtains in the other rooms. Light streams in. It is still cosy but no longer a closed hidden den.

Day 3. So many links and connections, in touch/out of touch. The need for touch giving and receiving. Is it with hands, body, mouth. Can the deaf blind be in touch fully. Is the mind and language involved. The explorative nature of touch is also interesting. Watch a child exploring a toy. Firstly they use hands to grasp the toy then their mouths to touch, taste and explore the toy. From childhood touch has been a way into exploring the world accompanied with other senses. It can be linked with, associated with, sounds, taste, feelings, mental recall, an establishing of space, so far and no further. The need for familial closeness of holding and cuddling, the transference of that in maturity to lovers and friends. I like to touch/be touched but personal spaces can impede. These can be self imposed or imposed by the toucher. People react differently to others in wheelchairs. It is difficult knowing reactions or even how to hug. Touching is easier in real space opposed to virtual space. The virtual connection can interfere or impede real contact and keeping in touch. The human element is interfaced by the machine removing the other senses that keep us in touch with reality of the connection. It is an illusion of contact and being in touch. Emails give that same illusion and even letters do but at least they reveal something of the character of the writer from the flow of the hand. There are times when I am completely out of touch with life which changes. I still want that human connection. I am touched by the kindness of strangers. Touched by books, films, poetry, the loyalty of friends.
From childhood I have taken pleasure in the touch of materials. Fluffy towels, cotton sheets, velvet, cashmere, the calming nature of stroking a cat. The soothing moments of a massage. A teddy bear. I love the touch of malleable materials, clay, dough. The transformations brought about creating something different by touch, ceramics, dough. Spatial differences in form, body and mind. Touching another mind, bringing about changes through giving and acceptance as a two way thing.

Images. Hands making things from
‘The Family of Man’
Old young hands ‘Family’ Margaret Mead.

Classroom essay. Alexander Calder Mobile – use of space
Changing form, reaching an almost touching but definite connection and understanding in the altered ever changing space.

God creating Adam moments
A reaching with space but a definite touching.

Eureka moments.

Day 4. “Not carrying but standing beside”
See The Prophet – Kahlil Gibran.
He speaks of love being like two trees standing side by side, but not too close to affect the other’s growth. They complement rather than drinking from the same cup. Currently I have no access to the poem whilst on vacation.

Give a man a fish. Feed him for the day. Teach him to fish. Feed him for life.
Perhaps this also applies, ‘He ain’t heavy he’s my brother.’ The willingness of others to assist to temporarily get another back on the road.

When working or going through life I am fiercely independent. I want to do things myself. I become defensive in group work. Often unwilling to take on ideas away from my set forms. I want to take ownership of the ideas and am reluctant to allow other intervention in my ‘own’ invention/creation.
It is different when I am teaching. I like to plant seeds of ideas and watch to see where they go. That ‘unstructured’ education worked well. There was a hidden structure or substructure to each day with an acknowledgement that literacy and numeracy, science, the arts and music, drama should be included. This open ended approach ‘allowed’ the child ‘to be.’ They worked within a framework. Open education.
In my childhood toys seemed to be given according to the sex of the child. Dolls, pushchairs, dolls houses, pink things for girls. Cars, toys, gun, trains for boys. Outcomes were predestined. Expectations were predestined. Caring for girls and competitive/aggressive for boys. Roles were strongly defined and perhaps still are. They were based on stereotypical role models. Imposed – not necessarily chosen. Strong were the minds that were able to go against the flow.
One 7 year old child in my group had a strong determined mind. He chose his own way. He came to school with his favourite toy. A My Little Mermaid doll. The other boys teased him to the verge of tears but he was not deterred until the day that I announced that there were to be no dolls in class. He was crestfallen. The other boys laughed and jeered. The following day at register time. He was very quiet. The boys were noticing him and were rather pleased that he didn’t have his My Little Mermaid. After register I said that I thought I said no dollies today. The boys looked around and said there were no dollies. I pointed out the action men dolls that they brought. They were outraged that I called them dolls. The boy dolls and the girl dolls were barred. That search for comfort/sexuality/role can be a chosen search or an imposition.
Imposition can bring about discomfort or conflict. My mother was a dressmaker. I was sometimes used as a tailor’s model for dresses. I did not like it and certainly didn’t want friends to see me like that.
All of us act out roles. Husband, wife, lover, our choice of profession. All with expectations. It is difficult to break away from those mainstream expectations and make one’s personal expression of choice.
Ambiguities follow us. Wonderful examples of this are The Rocky Horror Show and pantomime. Men being women, women acting as women. Women acting as men. Throw into this mixture. Powerful women, gentler men. Villains of both sexes, wizards, witches. Misrule exists. The theatre becomes a place of temporary acceptance of anyone.
Looking back to Native American teachings ‘not carrying but standing beside.’ I often have coffee in the same coffee shop. People recognize that. When I approach the door people inside see me coming. They open the door for me. A simple act but it enables me to be. I then wheel into the shop in my chair and they return to their coffee and paper.
As a teacher I would use books of photos as talking books to allow the children a chance to see people and possibilities beyond their own sphere. I would use ancillary helpers or volunteers to use the books to promote language but also to open windows or remove blinkers and prejudices. There were no set ends. They were different for every child and those ends were chosen by them.

See – “Family of Man” – Museum of Modern Art, NY. Photos birth to death, marriage, life World Wide.
“Family” – Margaret Mead – Mothers and Children. 
Fathers and Children. Children and peers.
World Wide.
Worldwide pictures showing children and their fathers. Hanns Reich text Eugen Roth.
Positive images of fathers and children caring/sharing activities.

See Cinema Paradiso. A young boy’s growth through the cinema and his love of film. The projectionist takes him under his wing and becomes a father to him. When the young man eventually goes away Alfredo tells him not to come back. “I only want you to go away and then I only want to hear about you and the things that you do.” A release for the man who is then able to leave his small town with confidence and go out into the world to find his way.

See children’s stories. ‘Princess Smartypants.’ Princess in black leather on a motorbike.
‘The Turbulent Term of Tyke Tiler’ by Gene Kemp. The whole story reads as a boy hero. It is a girl.
Both books look at stereotypes.
‘I Want a Doll.’ Boy wants doll. Gran gives him one so that when he is a man then he will know how to care.

Day 5. Hair? It comes and goes. With me it’s mostly gone. In the past I used it to express my hippy self. Shoulder length, an attempt at a beard. Zapata moustache. A soup strainer. Long sideboards. I used these to try to be different and appear to not care about mainstream society. I was surprised when extreme reactions were caused. My mother thought I looked like Jesus Christ. It pleased me. I went hitchhiking and was searched at border posts. In France going to Italy I was asked to prove I was not a vagrant. In Italy I was taken into a border post whilst books of photos were searched to see if I was a Baader Meinhoff terrorist. On leaving London to go to Israel I was searched by Israeli security. I had to take photos with my camera to show it was not a hidden weapon. Open packets of cigarettes and snap sticks of rock. Because of my look I was ‘very closely’ searched by two men who obviously thought I had an Arabic connection. They spoke to me in both Arabic and Hebrew. All of this was caused by my search for individuality. At the time I didn’t see why I couldn’t be judged like everyone else. I didn’t realise that by looking the way I did was as much a uniform and similarity as a suit. I looked like this for many years and even took on the part of Christ in the Wakefield crucifixion. My hair has now all but gone. I have it trimmed to feel tidier, or cooler. Sometimes in January or February I am affected by the grey European sunless winter. At that time I allow beard and moustache to grow. I lose the facial hair when spring warms the air and daffodils begin to grow. My spirits are lifted. It is an outside expression of brighter days.
I also like nice smells around me. This can be a nice spray or even flowers. Freesia and lilies of the valley, stocks, narcissus. All help to raise the spirits along with cooking or baking. The scent of freshly laundered sheets or a bath towel. I have a friend who takes this further. Her laundry in the airing cupboard is neatly piled in sets with a new bar of scented soap on top. The memory of friends past is recalled with the scent of different soaps.
Colour helps me to overcome low moments. In the grey days of winter I am affected by the lack of sun and colour. I try to overcome this with bright colours and warm clothing. Attempting to bring about the good feelings of the seasons to come. It is an illusion which I hope will keep me going until warmer times.

Day 6. In the late 1970’s I moved into my first house. Money was short. I bought basic furniture from a local auction house. My bookcase was planks and bricks. One day my uncle told me about a bookcase that an old lady wanted to dispose of. Her husband had passed away and she was clearing a room. Early one Sunday morning we went to the lady’s house. The bookcase was large. Three main upright sections on a plinth base with a cornice top. It was 7’8” high and had to be dismantled into 5 sections in order to lower it from an upper window. Mrs. Barr told me that her husband loved his books. They came from Germany in the thirties. She was tiny but managed to go climbing and they were members of an Alpine mountaineering club. She had picked edelweiss from the high mountain meadows. Along with the bookcase came commemorative magazines of the climbing of Everest. She told me that she used to be a teacher and would use the garden to teach maths and science. I told her that I did the same thing. “Yes my dear but this was in Germany in 1926.”
The bookcase looked as if it was made for me and fitted well into the house
After talking with Mrs. Barr memories were triggered from childhood. My life long friend used to live locally. She now lives in New York. In my teens I can remember her talking about her German teacher who was a very intelligent man. He told her that he was not a rich man but his wealth was in his books. I phoned the friend and she said “Fancy meeting Mrs. Barr after all these years.” The bookcase was from the same family.
Gradually the shelves of the bookcase were filled, and filled again with a second layer. It sat in my living room for 20 years. I used that room for books. There was no TV or radio. The Victorian fireplace and log fire meant that it was a cosy place to read.
When I moved house the bookcase went with me. It saw me through the death of my parents. My increasing disabilities. Before moving a second time I cleared out the front row of each bookshelf. The education books were moved on to an ex-student who was becoming a teacher. The drama books were given to the local college drama course.
As I moved into a wheelchair I became a stranger to the top two shelves. Again books were moved on. The bookcase now holds the essence of books that helped to form my life and education. It also holds objects collected along the way. A green stone (wave softened glass) to remind me of Zorba and sunny days. A small limestone heart from a Caribbean beach. Both given by my New York friend. Another limestone with three natural holes. It was found on a beach in Dieppe.
Other items include 3 Chinese house gods for health, wealth and longevity. Given by a Chinese house guest. An old small ivory carving of a Chinese immortal given to me from a collection of the Israeli poetess Leiah Goldberg. A small carving of Ganesh from New Delhi. A mechanical clown money box. Two doves in ceramic given after a wedding. A raku bottle. All have memories which are guarded by the bookcase. By now it has become a venerated friend. The heavy books are on the bottom two shelves. They are ready sorted so that when I move on then they will too.
I am now trying to come to terms with allowing the bookcase to move on to have a useful life with someone else. The parting will be difficult. Like the loss of a friend. It will be sad to say goodbye but it is also sad to see it only partly used. I am still deciding how the new storage will be. Perhaps two low level shelves in moveable units. It won’t be the same, but a change will be a new beginning.

Day 7. My digital encounters are very poor. Partly due to my Luddite nature and partly due to my own bloody mindedness. A reluctance to move to the new technology. I use a telephone but hardly ever use a mobile. I find them intrusive and only use them in emergencies. I have only recently bought a mobile. I taught myself to text, but I find the instant response of a phone message more reassuring if I need help. At least I know that I have made contact. I recently needed to contact a friend urgently. I left a voicemail on his phone. His landline didn’t work. He didn’t respond to email. Friends did not know his house number. I sent a text. It was unanswered. When we finally spoke the text had got through and worried his wife. The message was written in capitals. It seems that I was ‘SHOUTING.’ I did not know how to write in lower case and was ignorant of the convention of SHOUTING CAPITALS.
A few years ago I spent two days at Brunel University. I had supper alone in the bar on the first night. I watched a table of 10 people. They had mobiles, ipads and laptops. 2 others joined the group. After greeting the others I watched as they held a conversation via electronic gizmos. The same happened in a London café where there were 4 people each engrossed with their machines at the same table. They did not talk to each other. London buses are filled with people apparently communicating not with those around them but with someone in the ether. Either that or they use their electricals like books or newspapers were once used on the tube. They become a protective wall to stop access to them.
I do keep in touch via email. I use it rather like letter writing but it does not communicate the mood as strongly as a letter. The email seem more appropriate to swift notes and forwarded jokes. A letter shows more love and care because of the time element involved. It does not require an instant response. There is a greater depth of involvement and then content seems to have a greater intensity. I realise that not everyone feels this way. Part of the joy of letter writing involves waiting for the response. Emails are useful in their immediacy and brevity but sometimes a letter is worth the wait.
I have Skyped once or twice but it was for a group meeting. It was useful and saved a lot of travel. I don’t use Skype with friends. We talk on the phone, write letters or email.
I have used LinkedIn but rarely found it useful. I never use Facebook. I find it difficult to wade through the minutiae of peoples lives. I have no interest in what they ate for lunch or their latest selfie. The camera always seems to be pointing the wrong way. Self obsession points the camera at oneself. I do prefer face to face relationships. I can better read the tone of what they are saying when I see their faces.
I can feel a strong connectedness to someone that I have not seen or spoken to for some time. As friends we have already made that connection and the strength of that returns when we talk again. For some people the connectedness is not there even when they have all the varied modes of communication. They still don’t get in touch.
There is also the problem of the depth of communication whatever the mode. Sometimes it is ‘Thus far and no further.’
There is a poem by Rabindranath Tagore. I think it is number 29 in Gitanjali. It goes something like this.
“He whom I enclose with this name
Is weeping in this dungeon.
I am ever busy building walls
But day by day
I lose sight of my true being in their dark shadows.
I plaster them with mud and dust,
But for all the care I take
I lose sight of my real self”

This self protection can happen in both real encounters and virtual. The creation of a false reality. A refusal to uncover the truth. The creation of false impressions or a front. On the whole I am happier face to face.

See Marshal McLuhan “The Medium is the Massage”

P 16 The Medium is the Massage, McLuhan.
Electric circuitry has overthrown the regime of ‘time’ and ‘space’ and pours upon us instantly the concerns of all other men. It has reconstituted dialogue on a global scale. Its message is Total Change, ending psychic, social, economic and political parochialism. The old civic state, and national groupings have become unworkable. Nothing can be further from the spirit of the new technology than ‘a place for everything and everything in its place.’

You can’t go home again.

Written in 1967. 50 years ago!

See also – Newspaper cutting
A Silicon Valley School That Doesn’t Compute.

Day 8. It is the early 1950’s. I have been awake most of the night with excitement. Today is my first lesson at the Laura Lawrence dancing school. Mum is a barmaid/cleaner at the working men’s club. I have energy. I am up early and breakfast is toast, homemade blackcurrant jam and a cup of tea. I have been washed and my hair parted and combed with Brylcreem just like dad’s. I wear grey shorts, white shirt. White socks with coloured ankle line and crêpe soled sandals. Mum takes my hand and we go down the jitty to the club. It smells of cigarettes, stale beer and Jeyes fluid underlined with urine.
The club is where the lessons will be held. Today is acrobatics. Mum made the black outfit of pants with waistcoat top. LL is picked out in sequins on the chest. My underwear pokes out of the leg of the pants. The floor is made of wood blocks that splinter easily. My teacher arrives with her husband Carl who plays the piano. She smells wonderful. Mum doesn’t wear expensive perfumes. Laura has a panelled skirt in red and black felt. Each panel has the picture of a Spanish dancer. Her earrings are ballet dancers complete with dangly legs. I can’t help looking at them. Her stockings have seams. I can’t help looking at them. I am the only boy in the class. As Carl plays the piano I learn how to do cartwheels. I also learn backbends but can’t do the splits. Laura is very different to anyone I have ever met. So is her daughter who becomes my best friend. They are so colourful. I am not used to so much colour. Mum and dad dress in dark colours. It is just after the war. Laura tells me that she is from France. Carl is English. They all speak a very different English to me. Mum and dad are from the north. They want me to speak just like my friend because she speaks nicely. 
After the lesson I go home to play with my friend and I am allowed to stay for some food. They live in a flat. It is warm and smells different to home. I smell coffee and real lemons. They buy the coffee in London along with special meats that we have for lunch. I am given a job. I have to sit on a stool in the corner and grind the coffee with brown beans. The handle turns around and around and coffee dust falls into a drawer. Sometimes I pod peas or take the green tops from strawberries. I smell them and eat some when no one is looking. I like the smell. It is different to the Camp coffee we drink at home. I am not allowed to drink the real coffee because it is too strong for children.
After that first lesson I spend every Saturday with Carl, Laura and their daughter. I can’t say that I don’t like something without trying it. I cry when I eat crusty cobs. They hurt my teeth. We have white sliced bread at home, but I do like salami and garlic sausage and liver sausage. When dad smells my breath he wonders what I have been eating.
My friend and I are like brother and sister. She comes to my house on Sundays and mum cooks scones, egg custards and sponge cakes for tea. Sometimes we have ‘shop bought cake’ for Saturday tea. We get on so well that Carl and Laura want me to be the boy in their family but mum and dad won’t let them. I feel I should have been born somewhere else. Each week I look forward to my Saturdays with my second family. I like their flat. They have circular table with a button in the middle. If you press it then the middle goes up and shows bottles and glasses. It is for cocktails We don’t have cocktails at home. We don’t have a car but they do. I am able to go on short trips with them to airshows and farms. We take picnics. They make stuff in screw top jam jars. We have potato salad and Russian salad with jars of fruit in jelly. Separate jars each. I like that. They took me to the theatre for the first time. When they first met my mum she told them that I wanted to go on the stage. Over 65 years later I am still friends with them.

Day 9. Early life was a time of black and white days. Photos of black and white. Clothes of grey, black and white. A post-war time. Rationing was still in operation. We did not have a television. The highlights of life were the holidays, festivals, special occasions, birthdays and treats.
These were anticipated with such excitement that it would keep me awake. Waiting for Santa Claus meant that I barely slept. I would rise at around four being unable to contain the excitement any longer. I opened presents first and then sorted through the stocking. It contained apple, orange, nuts and sometimes a smoker’s kit made of liquorice pipes with red sprinkles. Christmas was also a time of pantomimes. Some years I would see 6 and see Santa each time. The venues would be in old theatres, music halls, working men’s clubs, Co-operative halls. The magic of the stage, performance and costume. Underwater scenes with fluorescent costumes and swimmers on wires. Appearance and disappearance and a total involvement in the story. It carried such belief and involvement that when a gorilla appeared and terrorised the audience then there was belief. Families were able to enjoy the pantomimes. Mum and dad would laugh at jokes I didn’t understand.
Circuses held the same magic for me. Acrobats in pyramids and animal acts. Coco the clown and trapeze artists. Gina the Moon girl sanding on her head on a crescent moon suspended over a flooded ring with crocodiles. The sparkle and glamour. The excitement.
Bonfire nights were long awaited treats. The build up to the night involved the making of the guy and the building of the fire. 
On the evenings sparklers were held in gloved hands. Knitted gloves of course. Explosions of colour followed by Oohs and Ah’s. Brightness in the darkness.
Birthdays with the unbearable wait until the day. Parties with balloons and candles. An accordion playing Happy Birthday.
The cinema was a rare escape from the everyday world. A treat accompanied by an ice lolly. In the winter the pantomimes were often preceded by a visit to the hot chestnut man and his brazier.
The main entertainment was a visit to the club. Dad was a member. They had a concert hall. If we were good then we had a Vimto and a packet of crisps with a blue bag of salt. If we were even better then we had two. The ‘turns’ or acts were usually crooners or comedians. Sometimes acrobats. The colour, sparkle and magic drew me to the stage.

Day 10. The ‘threshold’ moment happened years ago. The changes span the years. At thirteen my second family moved away. We still kept in touch with phone calls in button A button B phone boxes. We also used letters and postcards to maintain contact. We met every year or two. Like my parents, they too encouraged my education. I went to college and after that began a life of travel, work and performance. My world had been opened up by Laura and family to a greater world. I was able to see beyond the possibilities of the council estate. I hitchhiked to Greece one year and Yugoslavia another. On the first trip I went via Provence and met my ‘sister’ and her husband. It was the first time that we had met as adults. Over the years we met in London, Paris, Provence, the Champagne trail, Alsace, Strasbourg, Tuscany and New York. We would walk down Broadway and realise that we had come a long way from New Parks Estate – the council estate. My education in life continued. I was introduced to fine dining by them and ate in 3 star restaurants in Provence and New York. Food became a delight and still is. I now rarely eat the dumplings and homemade pies of my youth. If I do eat dumplings then they are dim sum. We would meet on a yearly basis in New York, where we would eat French, Chinese and Japanese food. Christmases were spent together in the ice and snow. My family was extended with the husband’s family and my sister’s au pair family in Alsace. Links were made with children and grandchildren. At holiday times I helped choose photos for exhibitions of the works of J.H. Lartigue, Robert Doisneau and others. My sister is a photo dealer. I gave opinions rather than expert advice. To fund my trips I bought and sold photography and ethnographic books. I had a ready made market with my friend’s photography clients and connections with the Goldwater Primitive Art Library in the Metropolitan Museum. It was all very different to my career as an infant teacher. We attended the opera, classical and jazz concerts, the theatre and arena concerts seeing Michael Jackson. All another world compared to my home in a little village of 200 people.
Using this impetus I also travelled Europe, Israel, Japan, Australia, India and all over America.
During term time I loved working with the children at school, but not the paper work. On weekends, Monday and Tuesday nights I would rehearse for performances with a medieval drama group. We performed at half term October, Christmas and Easter. The productions went to ‘900 years of the Normandy Abbeys festival’, Leicester and Coventry Cathedrals, the Seine Valley, St. Margaret’s Westminster, the Saarland and the Sourbonne. They were great years which were only stopped by increased disability. As recent as 3 years ago I helped to arrange a Tudorish night in the local church. It was a community gathering which raised over £1100 for the building. The love of performance grew from my dancing classes and was nurtured by Laura.
My summers and Christmases in New York continued until 4 years ago when practicalities of strange bathrooms became too difficult. My sister and I still communicate by phone, letters and envelopes filled with paper cuttings and jokes. We still exchange notes on the exhibitions we see. Me from London and she from New York, Milan, Miami, Paris.
Laura Lawrence is still alive and living in Manhattan just five minutes from her daughter.

See photos. Acting
Mask story.
Scaramouch mask.
Eagle and Polar bear
Masks.

Day 11. Life has become easier with retirement. Acceptance has slowly descended. Increased disability meant that I now use a wheelchair and a shower chair with a hole in it to go to the loo and shower. This has restricted my travels. I no longer go to New York to visit my friends. On the last visit I realised that the problems would create major difficulties for further visits. I was depressed and angry. Our final parting was not good. Since then I have done all I can to recover what was there before. It would have been best had it never happened. We still talk on the phone and write. It would be good to still travel with the ease of the prior years. I am able to talk to Laura via a carer. She has 24 hour help because of her Alzheimer’s but she still recognises photos and my name. The last time we met she cried a lot. It was Christmas. In the lounge of her apartment house there was a Christmas tree. The piped music played Oh Christmas Tree, Oh Christmas Tree. I pointed out the music and said it was Tannenbaum. Laura then started singing Oh Tannenbaum in German. The language of her youth. She no longer speaks German because of bad experiences in Germany and in England after the war. It was not a good time to be German in England.
Through my youth she kept her origins a secret. She performed with ENSA, Benny Hill, Frankie Howerd, Dick Emery in the Palladium and Music Halls across the country. It would have been good to have relieved her of this secret burden.
I too had a secret ‘burden’ My own sexuality. As an infant teacher I was careful not to mention my sexuality. I am sure it was obvious to friends and family around me but it was the elephant in the room. Never mentioned. I realise now the wasted energies in trying to hide part of oneself. Laura had done this for most of her life and I did too. Honesty would have given us both a better life. Laura accepted her nationality when she went to America. Her German birth was freely acknowledged. She then became American. I acknowledged my gayness cautiously when I retired. The pressure of hiding was relieved. I should have done it earlier. It would have been so much simpler.
The change to both of us and to those around us by the simple act of honesty would be something worth having. On an earlier page I referred to Poem 29 by Tagore from Gitanjali. So much time has been spent behind that wall. Friendships have been defensive. So far and no further. There was a fear of revelation. The freedom of revelation is something I was frightened about.

See Erich Fromm, ‘Fear of Freedom’

This would give me the relief of a load. Like Christian in Pilgrim’s Progress I carried a load. This brought about anxieties.
I worried about many things. Mainly being late but also almost anything else from setting off in the car, doing shopping, gardening, the way I talked. Many things. My sexuality was amongst the list. A rewritten me would remove these anxieties.
It would also be good to travel freely again on the new me. Loss of disabilities would be good. In a perfect world I would have had a long term relationship. It would be good to have another to share with. I have missed that close companionship.

I don’t regret not being adopted by the second family but it would have been good if my own family had seen more of the world. I would like to have been more open with them too and had more appreciation from them. Simple things like attending school plays, acknowledgements of good school reports. Our relationship as a family only got better in my early 20’s. They died by the time I was 30. More time would have been good. They had a tough life and their concerns were survival concerns. Their outside experience of the world was limited. Their ability to help and advise on further education was not there. The road could have been smoother but I have been fortunate with my fellow travellers along the road.

See Primo Levi ‘To My Friends’ poem

Dear friends, and here I say friends
In the broad sense of the word.
Wife, sister, associates, relatives,
Schoolmates of both sexes;
People seen only once
Or frequented all my life
Provided that between us, for at least a moment
A line has been stretched,
A well defined bond.
I speak for you, companions of a crowded
Road, not without its difficulties
And for you too, who have lost
Soul, courage, the desire to live;
Or no one, or someone, or perhaps only one person, or you
Who are reading me: remember the time
Before the wax hardened,
When everyone was like a seal.
Each of us bears an imprint
Of a friend met along the way;
In each the trace of each.
For good or evil
In wisdom or in folly
Everyone stamped by everyone.
Now that the time crowds in
And the undertakings are finished,
To all of you the humble wish
That autumn will be long and mild.
Primo Levi

Day 12. Future. All life is change and process given the changing situations. Crafting a future could be a futile process unless done moment by changing moment. Whilst it is true that my future starts here…. or even here…. who can say what or how it will progress. I do know that the older I become then the more people I lose, but this has happened at every step of the way.
“At seventy I am still planting trees.
Let not my neighbours mock my folly.
From the beginning there has indeed been death.
But it is well that we have no foreknowledge.”
Yüan Mei.

I have forgotten the name of the poet. He is Japanese. My disabilities will have an influence on my future life with routes I may have to follow. Decreased independence and the possibility of supervised help in a home or my own home. Alternatives have been explored. Transport will become more of a problem. I live in the country with a 2 hourly bus service. A live in driver/helper might work. A more mobile shower/wheelchair/loo chair would give me greater range. Throughout life I have tried to fill my time productively. Making friends, following career, acting, creating and perhaps now even writing. As one activity finishes another begins. I no longer work with the heavier crafts of mosaic, ceramics and have gravitated to paper cut out works and sewing. Light weight crafts to still make use of my creativity.
I am currently looking at changes with the bookcase and am thinking of selling it to pay for low level units to hold my books and pots. I should sell it along with the story and start a new story with a new unit. The moment calls for it.
Perhaps I should also think of endings. I should write a will and tidy up a little. I am not yet ready to go. There are still lots of new places to see. I am saving some of them for the next lifetime. Machu Picchu, Petra. The page for that will be a new beginning. Yet to be written.

Day 13.
Before	Traction	Aha moment	What next
Untroubled Childhood.	In teens and twenties 8 relatives died within 10 years.	Life is short	Make the most of it.
I enjoyed school.	I failed the 11+
Comparisons were made with my elder brother.	I did well at Secondary school.
With a need to learn.	I passed 13+ and went to grammar school + college.
Diagnosed with gout and arthritis. Walking got worse. I worried about MS.	Friends in New York suggested a medical.
I was diagnosed with MD.	A weight was lifted. I did not have MS.	I knew what I was dealing with and was able to plan.
Childhood belief in Santa Claus. 	I realised the truth when chatting with friends.	It gave me a renewed love for my parents knowing that they cared so much to give selflessly.	I have tried to give as freely even though I have no children of my own.
Early retirement 2001.	TIA with loss of speech, right arm and right leg. It all returned after 2 hours.	I looked into the void and it was OK.	I realised I could have died with money in the bank. I have been frugal. I spent £300 on a pot by Kenzan.
I gave Christmas presents to nieces and nephews.	By February no one had contacted me either by letter, phone or email.	I decided to tell them all that I was not giving presents the following year and not to buy one for me.	I used the money to give a healthy check to St. Martin’s in the Fields housing for the homeless.
I sent Christmas cards around the world.	The effort of writing them took a week. Plus the expense.	I now send greetings via email.	The money saved is added to the above check.
I love cooking.	On New Year’s Eve I would prepare a huge meal for my friends. It would take me days in preparation.	I finally accept the offered help.	The meals continued for several more years.
I was unhappy in my first job.	I had to witness the beating of a child and sign a ‘punishment’ book.	I resigned for the end of the school term and was told that I would not get another job for leaving at the end of my probationary year.	I was offered a job in an open plan progressive school where I remained until the end of my career.
Active. Walking, craftwork – mosaics, ceramics, dye work, printing, acting, travel.	MD diagnosis.
Diminishing of physical abilities.	I could no longer walk distances, but I bought a bicycle and went through the Pyrenees to Provence. I cycled Brittany and the Loire and Sussex. Went skiing – once. Then I learnt to drive with an automatic then with hand controls from wheelchair. Acting continued from chairs. Craftwork changed to needlework and paper work. I was able to encourage crafts for 8 years at a hospice. Travel continued by chair to New York, India, Denmark, Paris, Avignon, Cyprus.	I can cope with changes as they arise and they give me a wider vision of my life.
Great summers and Christmases with the second family.

	Four years ago with -20° temperatures +20” of snow I was depressed in N.Y. I got angry with my friend on the last day and throughout the holiday.	I saw a pattern of my behaviour. It had happened before.	Time to do something about it. I went to the GP and had some sessions of CBT. It did not help. I then had some sessions with a counsellor. That helped.
Fortunately I was forgiven and we speak on the phone on a regular basis several times a week.
See poem below. About loss and anguish, loss of muscle power, anguish about treatment of friend. Sorrow of Parting
I spend a lot of time in solitary activities.	I talk too much when in groups, then seek time alone.	I am interested in Oliver Sacks and recently with a book called Odd Girl Out.	I see a lot of her autistic characteristics in me. Frustration, anxieties, counting, and several others. It may be just like finding you have diseases if you look through medical books.
Watch this space.
I was told by my father (before I went hitchhiking) to trust no one.	I was away for 5½ weeks. I was met with generosity and kindness. In Messonghi we were taken into a small house and offered fruit and water.
In a park in Verone we were taken to a better place to sleep by the park keeper. He came back in the morning with coffee and cake.	Most people are filled with kindness and generosity.	If I saw people hitching I would stop and talk. Several people stayed in my home. One man was pushing an iron bedstead from St. Ormond Street to raise funds. He arrived on a friend’s recommendation at 10. He wore a kilt and a huge Tam O’Shanter. It is good to give.

Sorrow of Parting, Maruyama Kaoru
In the ear of an anchor a gull croaks
Suddenly, without a word, the anchor glides down,
Startled, the seagull takes off.
In a moment the anchor turns pale in the water, sinking.
And what the seagull feels becomes a wild sad scream.
Lost in the wind.

What is he?
- A man of course.
Yes but what does he do?
¬- He lives and is a man.
Oh quite, but he must work. He must have a job of some sort.
- Why?
Because obviously he’s not one of the leisured classes.
- I don’t know. He has lots of leisure. And he makes quite beautiful chairs.
There you are then. He’s a cabinet maker.
- No No!
Anyhow a carpenter and joiner.
- Not at all
But you said so.
- What did I say?
That he made chairs and he was a joiner and a carpenter.
- I said he made chairs, but I did not say he was a carpenter.
All right then. He’s just an amateur.
- Perhaps. Would you say a thrush was a professional flautist or just an amateur?
I’d say it was just a bird.
- And I say he was just a man.
All right. You always did quibble.
D.H. Lawrence


Day 14.
I looked at today’s assignment with bewilderment. I never look at horoscopes and ignore star signs totally. I have just read my natal chart and Alice’s too. Strange similarities in the language used. Hardly surprising when it is put together by a computer. Parallel sentences. Rather like a computer generated school report. Having said that – it is remarkable seeing the points to which I can relate.
Sun in Virgo. I have a love hate relationship to being in the limelight. I love it but also worry about it in performance. I always have a project to keep me busy. I dislike being without projects. I am shy but make great efforts to be outgoing. I need compliments and affirmation, but will easily brush them off.
Sun-Moon. I enjoy public life. My teaching career meant that I had contact with over 1000 children and their families. I still live in the same town so a trip to the shops means that I always meet people I know. After retiring I did voluntary work so this public persona continues.
Sun-Venus. Social relationships are very important to me. I am not attracted to certain people and positively avoid them. I can never remember their names. I can be two faced and can view people on outward appearances but can get beyond this.
Sextile Sun-Mars.
I keep seeing aspects of myself reflected. I rise to challenges and will generally have a go. I dislike rule breaking especially with politicians. I hate violence and anger. I love life. 
Sextile Sun-Jupiter. On the whole this expresses my positive outlook and looking on the bright side. I also have a love of humour and usually have a joke to tell. I can have black days but try to keep these to myself. The public persona usually has a smile.
Square Sun-Uranus. I strongly agree ‘It can be quite a challenge to get you to do what you don’t want to do, simply because you see any attempts by others to push you in a certain direction as threatening to your sense of freedom.’ I question tradition and authority and am set in my ways. I must have been a very difficult person to have on a teaching staff. We were asked to do plans. I objected to this but said that I would write an essay about the way I worked in a classroom. Fortunately my head teacher was exceptional. She allowed me to do this.
See Reflections and Head teacher’s response.
Moon in Virgo. My good memory has helped me with line learning and remembering poems. I like to stay calm. This is not always possible.
Conjunction Moon-Venus.
It’s embarrassing to see so much positivity. I am lazy with things that I am not interested. egs. Washing up, tidying the house, cleaning the car.
Sextile Moon-Mars.
Mercury in Libra. I can see my ‘mental laziness’ beginning to creep in.
Conjunction Mercury-Neptune.
Writing, imagination, intuition. 
Since writing this journal it has made me feel that I want to start writing again. The imagination has to kick in again but I do work a lot with intuition.
Venus in Virgo. I tend to keep friends when I have made them and have had some for over 50 years and others for over 65 years. I am undemonstrative.
Sextile Venus-Mars.
Sextile Venus-Jupiter.
Square Venus-Jupiter. After reading this perhaps it is best that I never married.
Mars in Cancer. The term passive-aggressive has been used about me. On rare occasions I am downright confrontational.
Trine Mars-Jupiter
Jupiter in Scorpio.
Square Jupiter-Saturn. Easily irritated. Whilst on vacation one of my favorite phrases was ‘I hate.’ After a while I realised that this was a phrase used too often.
Saturn in Leo.
I feel I am approaching the end of today’s work
I can persevere with tasks.
See horsemen mosaic. 5 years.
I love the arts and music.
I was once engaged for 3 days.
I was in love with her singing voice and humour.
I have a strong need for self expression.

Day 15. This is a difficult one. Traction into transformation. Sometimes it is thrust upon us and change is ‘grown into.’ At other times we make a conscious decision to change and maybe we achieve that. Look at New Year’s resolutions on smoking. It will only come about if one is ready. That tipping point has to be right. 
1. Embrace Changes. It takes time. My room heater has recently been changed to a remote gas fired stove. I still look upon it as a stranger in the room but I am sure we will soon get used to each other – rather like a new flat mate.

2. Move with the changes. Again this takes time with some things. I recently bought a mobile. I dislike them. I have taught myself to text. I don’t like it. I have lost my re-charging cable. How could I have done this? Was it a conscious thing? I have searched for over a week. The house is in disruption with gas fire replacement and central heating replacement.

3. Be kinder to myself. I want to do so much. Physically I have low energies. Searching through places where I may have put the re-charging wire is difficult. I have to get more organised.

4. Acknowledge and mark. Not sure what this means but it may have something to do with avoidance and recognising that. It’s something that has been with me life long. I would rather sunbathe than revise for an exam. I delay until the last moment. Perhaps it is to give me thinking time.

5. Be more self aware. I am sure this is linked to number 4. It may be the ability to step aside from myself and observing the repetitive behaviour. 

6. Share and give more both of physical things and from within. I am a private person and find it difficult to share my inner feelings. Meantime life can fly by.

7. Become more open and break down walls. See no. 29. Gitanjali (Tagore).

Day 16. This metamorphosis that we all go through in the ageing process started early with me. From the age of 30 my muscles began to atrophy with Muscular Dystrophy. I fought against the changes in my body. I tried everything I could to try to slow down the progress/process of the disease. I kept active as long as possible with walking, skiing, cycling, gardening. I became a vegan for 5 months and avoided tea, coffee and alcohol. Eventually I saw this was doing no good so I started with fish, meat and alcohol again. I tried Tai Chi and Chi Quong along with the Alexander Technique. They all helped but did not stop the inevitable changes. The memory remained in the muscle. In dreams I can sometimes still walk. I entertained a Chinese family one year for a week in my house. The father performed the same form of Tai Chi that I had learnt. I lamented the fact that I could no longer move the form except in my mind. He told me that was the higher form.
In tests for MD I was stuck with needles in the biceps. These were connected to wires and a machine. A read out appeared on screen. It looked like electrical interference. I was told to think into the muscle to try to straighten the line. I did. Thinking into a movement helps. Transfer from bed to wheelchair flows easier with mental assistance. The muscles become prepared. Simple things like dressing need to be thought into. Putting on a pair of socks becomes an acrobatic exercise. Like the butterfly I have to relearn how to handle my body. It can take me half an hour to dress and I feel as if I have done a day’s work before I begin.
The new me is viewed very differently to the old me. Rather like the caterpillar and the butterfly in reverse. There is now little recall by others of what used to be. Assumptions are that I have always been like this.
Last year I bought a new wheelchair. It is all singing/all dancing. Again I can have full days in London or Leicester. It has a greater range. I can also ‘stand’ next to a friend in a pub. The chair rises and reclines.
I dreams I can still walk and sometimes even fly.
Perhaps that is the next change.

Muscle memory.

For muscles to have a memory then they need something to remember.
See ‘Silicon Valley School That Doesn’t Compute.’

“The school’s chief teaching tools are anything but high tech: pens and paper, knitting needles and occasionally mud. Not a computer to be found. No screens at all. They are not allowed in the classroom, and the school even frowns on their use at home.”

A silicon valley school attended by the children of the employees of Google, Apple, Yahoo, Hewlett-Packard.

“In 2nd grade, students sanding in a circle learned language skills by repeating verses after the teacher whilst simultaneously playing catch with bean bags. It’s an exercise aimed at synchronising body and brain.”

See Duane Michals Upside Down, Inside Out, and Backwards.
Illusions edited by Edi Lanners. Thames and Hudson, 1973.

See paintings by Salvador Dali.
Drawings by Escher.

These all illustrate one thing whilst hiding another.

See Masks. Story.

See Fleur Cowles - Lion and Blue.
See Fleur Cowles - Tiger Flower.
Children’s stories about a lion and tiger. They have diminished size compared with the flowers and butterflies.

See Metamorphosis – Franz Kafka.
A man becomes a giant beetle overnight. The story follows his family who initially have great sympathy but then a growing resentment.

See Garden of Earthly Delights, Bosch

See fence of skulls, turtle shell, snake skins, creatures in bottles, jars, swordfish skeleton, fish.
Strange objects softened by nasturtiums into a fence.

Day 17. Soup. Can be such a variable thing. Quick soup can be satisfying but slow soups can be equally good. I thought about primordial soup and the conditions necessary for a good result. Now a disproven theory I like the mental construct of such a soup able to help creatures escape the sea and go on to the land. Like all soup I am sure it would have a good stock and just the right temperature. It would be simple but flavoured with complex spices.
A friend recently came and we shared our diaries for the afternoon. After two hours I felt the need to eat. Knowing that she is a vegetarian I suggested red lentil soup. The stock was a marigold bouillon. The spice - a spoonful of hot curry powder. Add a cup of lentils to 3 cups of boiling water. Turn down the heat to low and cap with a lid. Now you have 10 or fifteen minutes to continue the journal sharing. Then check the pan to be sure it is not drying out. We toasted two bread rolls and the soup was served in hand thrown grey stoneware bowls with sheets of nori seaweed. Dessert of Greek yoghurt followed topped with homemade apricot jam that I brought back from Cyprus. We both sat in wheelchairs looking out at my yard where a blackbird flew into the ivy to take supper to its young. My friend added a bay leaf from the garden as the soup was being cooked. She also added some chopped coriander to give added flavour. Whilst the soup as cooking we savoured the smell but also the scent of roses that she brought from her garden. Sustained by the soup we were able to continue with the diaries for another few hours. We relaxed into the sharing and saw many similarities with our pasts.

Day 18. 
Me	Friend
Roots. Northern family. Mum, dad, 3 sons. 7 years between younger, middle and 7 years to the older.	Roots. Mother Berliner, Father English. 1 daughter.
Moved to Leicester after the war.
Both sets of parents worked.
Father miner.
Mother hosiery work, barmaid, school meals cook.	Father salesman, pianist.
Mother secretary, salesperson.
Great friends
Understanding of differences
Friend. daughter in our family
Me. son in this family
Acrobatic partners
Council house	Council flat
Private houses
Settled in Leicester	Moved to Luton
London
New York
Secondary Modern School, Grammar School. College.	Private Education.
Left home for College aged 20.	Left home to Au pair in France.
Letters and phone calls.
Some meetings.
Stay single and become a teacher.	Friend marries after working 7 years on Pan Am.
We meet again in 1970 in France.
Regular contact thereafter in France, New York, London.
Developed common interests in food, music, theatre, the arts.
Books	Books
We helped one another with books.
I searched book fairs for photographic and ethnographic books.
These were sold to clients, helping them and helping me to fund trips.
Summers were spent in Connecticut
Cycling in France and Spain, Brittany, Normandy.
Circle of friends greatly expanded, Chefs, Whitneys, Vanderbildts.
Walking down Broadway. We’ve come a long way from New Parks Estate.
Mutual support through the ageing and deaths of family members.
Support at 9/11.
I visited NY 3 weeks after.
Support through diagnosis of MD and increased disability.
Emotional support and advice.
Phone calls letter writing and paper cuttings
2 hour calls are not unusual a couple of times a week.
We are honest and understanding with each other.
Have helped each others’ development.
Acknowledging very different lifestyles.
Symbiosis	Symbiosis
We can tell when the other has a problem or is happy or sad.
The Wind Beneath My Wings.
No top, no bottom, no upside down, no inside or out, no edge, no limit.
See Duane Michals ‘No Top, No Bottom, No Inside Out or Backwards’
Mobius	Mobius

Day 19.
I appear to be spending too much time on others and insufficient time focusing on myself. I am in the process of cutting back on the voluntary time spent helping others. I really enjoy spending time with friends so extra time will be taken from helping others. I will also need to make time. This will be done by cutting back on the use of the radio, television and listening to music, plus computer access time. I seriously need to look at my self esteem. Historically this is not a good area for me – beginning with the failure of the 11+ and going on from there. Time and mental space needs to be found. This can then be given to the other areas of my life so that I am not just ‘allowing’ them to grow, but positively nurturing them.

Day 20. Kintsugi. Such a beautiful idea. Taking the broken pieces and making a new. As a child I would make pictures from beer bottle tops. Mum was a barmaid and it kept me occupied. I also entertained myself with the tins of buttons. As I grew older I made mosaics and have a couple of quilts made by friends. A nice wall hanging graces the wall. It’s made from salvaged pieces of old saris.
The idea that a beloved pot can be restored and then valued as such is fascinating. Compare that to patched clothing or a person. What was seen as broken or dysfunctional can then be valued – possibly even more valued than before. The repaired item will show the wounds or experiences that it has lived through and exhibit to all the worth within. It makes an artist of the viewer (not my words. Perhaps Yanagi). Definitely Soetsu Yanagi.
“It is this beauty with inner implications that is referred to as Shibui. It is not a beauty displayed before the viewer by its creator. Creation here means rather, making a piece that will lead the viewer to draw beauty out of it for himself. In this sense, Shibui beauty, the beauty of the tea ceremony, is beauty that makes an artist of the viewer.”
Yanagi – To an unknown Craftsman.

Kintsugi takes the parts and reconstructs the whole to give it spirit again.
Day 21. Objects to go with me.
Photo album – family and friends.
Happy Days photo. Torn seaside photo with elder brother. From my father’s wallet when he died.
Junk wire bicycle from Africa. Child’s toy, boy/girl magnetic kissing toy.
3 holed stone – magical – symbolic of rebirth.
Heart stone from best friend.
Book. 100 Years of Solitude – Marquez.
Zorba the Greek – with Green Stone. From friend.
I would choose to share these objects with Nelson Mandela.
I am sure he would understand the journey from the past and help me on the way forward in a positive way.
The above objects are simple treasures to remind me of good moments from my history. I would use these as a foundation on which to go ahead. 
I chose Mandela  to share them with because even after having gone through so much on Robben Island he was still able to move on with good heart and appeared to have a second, or even third life after his release from prison.

See Nelson Mandela – ‘Our deepest fear’ poem.

We would meet on a sailing ship early morning. The purple island of a strange Greek port would rise out of the morning mist before the heat of the day. All would be laid out before us. Promise would be in the air.

Day 22. Perceptions of reality. There are lots of disparate ideas whizzing through my brain.
One’s own perception of reality.
Different at different times.
Outward appearance/Inner reality.

See Duchess of Malfi – Webster.

The wearing of roles.
The wearing of masks. See Mask story?
Belief and Disbelief.
Truth and obfuscation.

Oliver Sacks was working with a group of patients when Ronald Reagan was being questioned on TV. Sacks asked the patients what they thought of his testimony. 
One group could read body language but had little awareness of spoken language. They felt that Reagan was lying because his body movements showed that he was concealing the truth.
The other group responded to language but not body language. They also felt that Reagan was lying because his words showed concealment.
Last night on Newsnight Theresa May was interviewed about her reactions and apparent lack of connection with the bereaved from the London fire. 
She dodged all questions and answered them with her own agenda.
It’s interesting to compare this with the Queen, who moved ‘easily’ amongst those affected by the fire. She ‘appeared’ to react and relate to the people who seemed touched. It would seem that her popularity was raised in just the opposite way that the P.M.’s had fallen.
Think back to the post Diana time. She seems to have been well advised this time.
Government ministers are keen to say what they are doing to help. Actions would bring a better response. Actions that are heartfelt and not just driven by public reaction to the inactivity – present and past.

See pp. 80-84 ‘The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat.’ 1985. The President’s Speech.
The patients were diagnosed with aphasia. 
Fascinating. Search on the web for Oliver Sacks. The President’s Speech.
It shows the difference between aphasia and agnosia.